Forecast Combination with Random Subspaces: Accuracy Gains
                                       and Interpretability

                                              Boris Kozyrev∗

                                               July 10, 2026



                                                 Abstract

           This paper studies Random Subspace Regressions (RSM) as a forecast-combination strat-
       egy. We develop a finite-sample framework that makes explicit the trade-off between using
       more forecasts (lower combination variance) and estimating more weights (higher estimation
       error). Monte Carlo experiments, where individual forecasts are themselves estimated, show
       that RSM typically delivers lower RMSFE than equal weighting and restricted OLS. In an
       empirical application using real-time FRED-MD vintages to nowcast U.S. GDP growth, RSM
       significantly improves the forecast combination performance relative to the mean with the
       largest gains during the COVID-19 recession and compares favorably to Lasso, Ridge, and
       Random Forest benchmarks. Finally, we link RSM to Shapley value decomposition, yield-
       ing a transparent decomposition of the combined forecast into contributions of individual
       forecasts even in high-dimensional settings.


           Keywords: Forecasting, Forecast combination, Random Subset, Forecast Combination
       Puzzle.
           JEL: C53, C52, C32.




 ∗
     Halle Institute for Economic Research (IWH), boris.kozyrev@iwh-halle.de
1    Introduction

Nowcasting, as well as short-horizon forecasting of economic activity, is crucial for decision-makers
such as firms and governments. Over the last couple of decades, the amount of data used for (improv-
ing) macroeconomic forecasting has been increasing sharply. This means researchers may generate
hundreds of different forecasts for a given macroeconomic indicator, for example, GDP. These indi-
vidual predictions may be derived from diverse methods or data sources. A natural question arises:
how to combine and/or select from numerous forecasts in order to produce a final prediction?
    One of the most straightforward techniques used by practitioners and researchers is to assign equal
weight to each prediction. This simple aggregation method proves to be a solid benchmark and often
outperforms more complex combination rules. In the literature, this fact is known as a ”forecast
combination puzzle”. However, despite its straightforward implementation and often empirical ro-
bustness, in many cases, the rule of applying equal weight to each individual forecast can be harmful.
The theoretical advantage of using the ad hoc equal-weighting is that it avoids estimating weights and
therefore carries no estimation error. The latter can be substantial if the number of forecasts is rather
high (especially compared to the time dimension). Still, in many practically-relevant cases, taking the
simple average is rather restrictive since it does not take into account any prior historical performance
of predictions. Equal weighting cannot detect genuine heterogeneity in forecast quality. Intuitively, by
unconditionally taking the mean of a set of forecasts, one is likely to misspecify the optimal weights:
too much weight to weak forecasters and too little to strong ones. This can be especially important
during turbulent times such as the COVID-19 crisis, when some of the forecasts (for instance, if they
are built using the leading indicators) respond substantially differently to the shock.
    On the opposite side,
    Economists and policymakers care not only about predictive accuracy, but also about understand-
ing the forces driving the forecasted outcomes. Forecasting (and forecast combination) should help
motivate economic and public policy decisions rather than deliver intractable, though sometimes ac-
curate, predictions (Burgess et al., 2013). Even the “best” single model can occasionally produce
large errors. In principle, understanding a model’s mechanics makes it easier to diagnose unusual
predictions in light of the inputs and the underlying economic environment.
    In this article, we propose a framework that connects two seemingly independent fields: forecast
combination and model interpretability. We build on the Random Subspace Regression method (RSM)
Boot and Nibbering (2019), originally proposed for forecasting rather than forecast combination. A
specific advantage of RSM is that this model makes it feasible to remain within a linear framework even
when the number of predictors (here, individual forecasts) is large. Hence, it also allows for obtaining
the contributions for each variable directly via developed shortcuts. Essentially, RSM estimates many
low-dimensional regressions on randomly selected subsets of forecasts and then aggregates the resulting



                                                   1
subspace predictions. Thus, it replaces a single high-dimensional (and potentially infeasible) regression
with a collection of smaller, related estimation problems, therefore reducing weight-estimation error
while preserving or even improving forecast performance.
   First, we study the theoretical properties of RSM for forecast combination. We show that in
population RSM unifies both the equal weighting and the optimal linear combination under a sum-
to-one restriction (restricted OLS). In other words, both benchmarks are a special case of RSM and
the latter interpolates between the two; therefore, being more flexible in practice. Furthermore, in
the exogenous common-loading case, we develop a finite-sample framework that helps to analyze
the trade-off between using more forecasts, which reduces approximation error, and estimating more
combination weights, that in turn increases finite-sample estimation error. The results show that the
excess risk of RSM can be defined as the covariance-weighted distance between the averaged random-
subset weight vector and the oracle weight vector. This representation makes transparent why RSM
can improve on equal weighting when forecasts are heterogenous enough. Simulatenously, it the
conditions under which RSM achieves a lower Mean Squared Error (MSE) than both and the equal
weighting benchmark. The results are in line with, for example, Elliott and Liao (2025) in the sense
that in the exogenous case – when forecasts are treated as given – in order to beat the equal weighting
scheme, RSM requires overcoming the estimation penalty. Simultaneously, RSM can mitigate this
penalty relative to estimating the full set of optimal weights. Also, the general expressions as well as
closed-form ones (in some specific cases) are obtained to illustrate the subset size k ∗ , which minimizes
MSE under the RSM framework even if in a specific case (such as compound symmetry) RSM cannot
outperform equal weighting because the latter is itself optimal. The analysis implies, that k ∗ depends
                                                                                     √
strongly but not exclusively on the sample size T . In particular, we show that k ∗ ∝ T − 1 and often
                    √
takes a form k ∗ = c T − 1, where c is some constant which can depend on several other model-specific
values, for instance, the pairwise correlation among forecasts.
   Second, we conduct the Monte Carlo simulations to evaluate the RSM forecast combination per-
formance compared to the same benchmarks (equal weighting and restricted OLS ”optimal” weights).
Unlike the theoretical analysis, in this exercise, we consider a different setting. Namely, when the
forecasts are not exogenous, but rather generated from each variable included in the data-generated
process (DGP) of the dependent variable. This design – univariately constructing covariate-based
predictions – is standard in the forecast combination literature when a high-dimensional setting is
considered (among others, see Chen and Maung (2023), Samuels and Sekkel (2017)). Moreover, this
specification helps us to understand how the theoretical results derived for the exogenous case translate
to cases when the forecasts themselves are estimated.
   The Monte Carlo simulations results suggest that RSM yields the lower root mean squared fore-
casting error (RMSFE) than both benchmarks when the subset dimension is chosen near the k ∗ across
all DGPs considered. However, the size of the gains depends on various factors, including the time


                                                    2
dimension T . Consistent with the provided theoretical results, equal weighting is often more resilient
than the optimal weights in the case when the number of forecasts is large, because the latter suffers
from the weight-estimation error.
   Typically, RMSFE, as a function of k, takes a U -shaped form highlighting a non-linear relationship.
This finding indicates the importance of choosing the right k: if the subset size is too high or too low,
the relative performance of RSM can deteriorate. However, the value of k ∗ which minimizes RMFSE
                                                               √
across all scenarios tends to lay in the close proximity to k = T rounded to the nearest integer.
In most cases, there are no additional gains of estimating true k ∗ via cross validation. The ad hoc
                     √
rule of choosing k = T yield the similar to (sometimes exact) minimum RMSFE value. Thus, this
choice of k is an empirically robust rule of thumb for the endogenous simulation and empirical settings
                                      √
considered. Therefore, we treat k = T as a practically relevant starting point for applying RSM for
forecast combination in the endogenous case. Alternatively, the cross validation, if desired, can be
implemented around the proposed value.
   Additionally, we explore a synergy between RSM and the SVD. Because RSM implies a linear
structure at the subspace level, we can decompose the RSM prediction into forecast contributions
using standard linear-model shortcuts, while still accommodating high-dimensional sets of forecasts.
Thus, under this framework, it is possible to circumvent the challenges of using many variables while
dealing with the SVD. We make sure that the main SVD advantage is fulfilled: the difference between
the final prediction and a baseline (e.g., the historical mean) is fairly distributed among the individual
forecasts. That is, all contributions sum up exactly to the total deviation holding up to an intercept
term.
   In our empirical application, we use real-time vintages of the FRED-md dataset, provided by the
Federal Reserve Bank of St.Louis, to nowcast US GDP using a high-dimensional set of predictions. For
                                                        √
the main analysis, the optimal subset size is set to k = T rounded to the nearest integer, motivated
by the Monte Carlo simulation results. We also examine robustness to alternative values of k and found
only marginal gains of using k ∗ , found by cross-validation. The results indicate that RSM outperforms
the equal weighting, delivering lower RMSFE across the specifications. In the full sample, the relative
to the mean RMSE for RSM is 0.67 and 0.88, if the COVID-19 quarters are excluded. This strengthens
the intuition that during crises, the RSM produces a more accurate forecast combination due to its
flexibility. Additionally, we also compare RSM to other high-dimensional benchmarks such as LASSO,
Ridge regression, and Random Forests, with RSM achieving the lowest RMSE among the competing
approaches. These empirical evidence supports the practical usefulness of the rule-of-thumb choice of
    √
k = T , even though estimating k ∗ can sometimes yield further improvements.
   Finally, we empirically investigate the difference between the weights and corresponding Shapley
Values obtained by the equal weighting and RSM, respectively. We observe that equal weighting tends
to underestimate the global weight of some important predictions (for example, industrial production),


                                                    3
which, in turn, leads to underestimating the relative contribution of this forecast, especially during
the COVID-19 crisis. The tight link between weights and contributions also potentially helps interpret
negative weights, which are often puzzling in practice.
   Literature review and contributions. This paper relates to several strands of literature. First,
this paper contributes to the literature of forecast combination by providing a flexible and easy-to-
implement regression-based estimation of forecast combination weights using random subspaces. So
far, RSM and its various modifications is used mostly to produce forecasts based on the actual data
(Boot and Nibbering (2019), Wichitaksorn et al. (2023), Kotchoni et al. (2019), Pick and Carpay
(2022), Kant et al. (2025), Meligkotsidou et al. (2021), Dinh et al. (2024)) with little being known
about its properties in the forecast combination framework. One closely related contribution is Chen
and Maung (2023), who, in the spirit of the complete subset regression idea of Elliott et al. (2015), fix
a subset size k, estimate many k-variate forecasting regressions, and then average the resulting subset-
model forecasts. In their empirical implementation, k is kept small (e.g., k ∈ 1, 2, 3, 5) largely because
the number of candidate subsets grows exponentially with k, making larger values computationally
burdensome. By contrast, our random-subspace approach treats subsetting as an integral part of
the forecast-combination estimator. We repeatedly estimate constrained combination weights within
randomly drawn subspaces and use a theory-guided estimation-error trade-off to motivate the choice
of k. Our framework yields practical guidance for selecting k (typically higher that proposed values
used in Chen and Maung (2023)). Consistent with this perspective, Chen and Maung (2023) report
that forecasting performance improves as k increases over the small grid they consider, suggesting
that further gains may arise.
   Second, we contribute to the growing literature of high-dimensional model/variable selection and
dimension reduction in the forecast combination settings. While dealing with a large number of
variables, researchers often assume sparsity. Sparse models explicitly imply that the least relevant
variables are discarded. For example, LASSO, as proposed in Tibshirani (1996), forces coefficients
for many predictors to equal zero, which can be too restrictive. RSM avoids assuming sparsity – an
assumption often imposed in the high-dimensional settings. Moreover, Giannone et al. (2017) argue,
based on Bayesian forecasting exercise, that posterior predictive distributions are characterized by
a combination of various different models rather than being concentrated on a single sparse model
or a single dense model. This intuition can transfer to the frequentist forecast combination settings
suggesting that a well-designed model averaging technique can outperform any sparse model, as shown
for the forecasting case in Kotchoni et al. (2019).
   Furthermore, RSM allows for computing each predictor’s contribution, linear attribution scheme
inspired by Shapley Value Decomposition.
   The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides the current state of the forecast
combination research. In Section 3, we describe the RSM method and how it can be used to combine


                                                      4
forecasts. Section 4 considers the theoretical framework. Section 5 explains the Monte Carlo framework
and simulation results. Section 6 introduces Shapley Values and establishes their correspondence to
RSM. Section 7 contains an empirical application of the RSM method. Finally, Section 8 concludes
and provides an outlook for future research.


2     Forecast Combination

Many researchers from various disciplines have analyzed a wide range of forecast combination methods.
In many practical settings, there are multiple forecasts of the same variable obtained either by different
methods or by using different sources of information (Timmermann, 2006). A common premise is that
combining different individual predictions can help to improve accuracy. The aggregation strategy
enables the incorporation of much more available information, which indeed may be more fruitful
than trying to seek a “best” model. For a review of the extensive literature on forecast combinations,
see Wang et al. (2023). In this section, we describe methods dealing with point forecast combinations
based on different linear approaches. We focus on this specific class of forecast aggregation because, as
can be seen further, it is possible to merge the latter with RSM. To conclude, a forecast combination
puzzle is discussed.


2.1   Linear Combinations of Individual Forecasts

One of the most straightforward strategies to combine various forecasts is to assign weights to each
individual prediction: the more precise the forecast, the greater the weight. There is a plethora of
different weighting schemes. Thus, it sounds feasible to construct a linear combination of the individual
forecasts and treat the OLS coefficients as weights.
    More formally, suppose an m-dimensional vector of h-step ahead forecasts ŷT +h|T is given. Addi-
tionally, an T -dimensional vector of past observations of the targeted variable yT is observed. Under
this framework, regression-based weights can be defined as follows (Granger and Ramanathan, 1984):

                              yT +h = wT +h|T,0 + wT′ +h|T ŷT +h|T + ϵT +h ,                         (1)

where ŷT +h|T are past individual forecasts.
    Some restrictions may still be imposed on wT′ +h|T . For instance, a constant term can be omitted,
and/or the weights can be adjusted so that their sum adds up to one. In the latter case, we obtain the
so-called ”optimal” weights that are obtained by running restricted OLS regression Bates and Granger
(1969):

                                                                X
                          yT +h = wT′ +h|T ŷT +h|T + ϵT +h ,       wT′ +h|T = 1                      (2)




                                                     5
   The use of regression-based weights for forecast combinations has a long history. Both advantages
and limitations of this approach have already been examined in the last century. One of the critiques
is shown, for example, in De Menezes et al. (2000). While exploiting the unrestricted regression, one
should address potential multicollinearity and serial correlation in forecast errors. We assume that
both of these challenges are mitigated when combining this approach with RSM, as discussed later.
   Upon establishing the regression-based weighting method, another concern arises. What if the total
number of ŷT +h|T is exceptionally large? In this case, a simple OLS estimation becomes impractical,
particularly when the number of forecasts (N) exceeds the number of observations in the training set
(n). It makes sense to use some variable selection methods, such as Least Absolute Shrinkage and
Selection Operator (LASSO) (Tibshirani, 1996), to end up only with a handful of individual forecasts.
   Typically, when dealing with high-dimensional data (in the form of N > n), LASSO or other
penalized regressions have been extensively used for dimension reduction in many areas, including
economics. However, sometimes it is necessary to use as much data as possible without excluding
variables by assuming non-sparsity. RSM can manage this level of selection ’strictness’ by utilizing all
the available data.


2.2   Forecast Combination Puzzle

Although various forecast combination methods have been proposed over the last couple of decades,
in practice, the simple average (assigning equal weights to each of the forecasts) tends to perform
similarly to (or even better than) more sophisticated aggregation approaches. This fact perplexed
researchers, who had been trying to find a prolific answer to that paradox. Stock and Watson (2004)
were among those who studied this phenomenon. In that paper, the term “Forecast combination
puzzle” was introduced.
   Indeed, one should expect some gains in terms of forecast accuracy while using more rigorous tools
for forecast combination rather than averaging. Moreover, theoretical results for some approaches
were formally derived, proving this initial claim. However, often a simple mean overshadows other
weighting schemes. Again, in Wang et al. (2023), a great summary of why the “Forecast combination
puzzle” holds empirically is presented. To summarize, a possible explanation is that the weights are
misspecified or wrongly computed due to, for instance, structural changes or limited data availability.
Alternatively, benefits from using a sophisticated combination may be relatively small, thus estimation
per se overwhelms the potential gains, especially if the weights are treated as random and not fixed
Claeskens et al. (2016).
   However, if individual forecasts come from different sources or models, the variance can be high, in
particular due to some outliers. If the number of outliers is high and they are not equally distributed
around the mean, then averaging over this forecasting set may not be efficient. Although taking a
median can arise as a potential method to produce a final prediction, as used in Stock and Watson


                                                   6
(1999), it does not indicate how varied the individual predictions are in the set. Moreover, individual
forecasts, even without outliers, can be distributed in such a way that taking a mean can be almost
uninformative. For example, in Figure 1 and in Figure 2, the histograms for the expected change
in prices during the next year based on the Surveys of Consumers, provided by the University of
Michigan, for November 2024 and July 2025 are presented.

                                                                                                                         20




             15


                                                                                                                         15




Percentage                                                                                                  Percentage
             10

                                                                                                                         10




             5
                                                                                                                          5




             0                                                                                                            0


                  ow
                      n
                          Sa
                             e    2%    4%   5%    9%        4%         m
                                                                            e             up        A
                                                                                                   /N                         ow
                                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                                      Sa
                                                                                                                                         e    2%    4%   5%    9%        4%         m
                                                                                                                                                                                        e             up        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                               /N
                  D          m   1−    3−         6−     −1              or           m                                       D          m   1−    3−         6−     −1              or           m
                                                        10             or              uc      K                                                                    10             or              uc      K
                                                                                         h     D                                                                                                     h     D
                                                                   %                ho                                                                                         %                ho
                                                                  15                  w                                                                                       15                  w
                                                                                K                                                                                                           K
                                                                                D                                                                                                           D




Figure 1: Expected Change In Prices During the                                                              Figure 2: Expected Change In Prices During the
Next Year (November 2024)                                                                                   Next Year (July 2025)


                  Because the Survey of Consumers extracts inflation expectations in pre-defined categories rather
than as continuous numerical responses, any “mean expectation” is not directly observed but con-
structed by assigning representative values to bins. This construction is particularly consequential in
the presence of open-ended categories such as “15% or more” and “Down”, where the set of admissible
values is wide, and the bin midpoint is undefined. Both histograms exhibit fat right tails, so the mean
(as reported in the survey) can be disproportionately influenced by a minority of extreme responses
and may therefore provide a poor summary of the “typical” respondent’s beliefs.
                  For these reasons, aggregation methods that are less tail-sensitive are often more informative than
a single mean. Using RSM for forecast combination allows for relying on the mean even in the presence
of outliers and/or if there are fat tails in the initial set. This is achieved by obtaining a new set of
forecasts – based on the initial one – which is supposed to be distributed in a way that taking a mean
makes sense and provides good empirical performance.


3                      Random Subspace

Initially, RSM methods appeared in the field of machine learning without much application in macroe-
conomic forecasting. Ho (1998) introduced this approach to train tree models, later Bay (1998) ex-
tended the same logic to the nearest neighbour classifiers. Wichitaksorn et al. (2023) applied RSM to




                                                                                                        7
feature selection in a logistic regression framework. Recently, random or complete1 subspace methods
have become a powerful tool used in macroeconomics (Elliott et al. (2013),Kotchoni et al. (2019),
Pick and Carpay (2022)) and finance (Meligkotsidou et al. (2021)). Some further examples of papers
utilizing subspace methods can be seen in Boot and Nibbering (2020).
       Random subset regression is a randomized reduction method, according to which a small number
of indicators are (randomly) selected to estimate a lower-dimensional problem. This procedure is
repeated a sufficient number of times. Thus, one ends up with many approximations to the initial –
sometimes infeasible to calculate directly – model. Finally, the forecasts from each low-dimensional
model are combined (averaged). This allows for reducing forecast variance while utilizing all available
information.
       More formally, suppose that the following data-generating process (DGP) is defined as follows:


                                                    yt+1 = x′t β + ϵt+1 ,                                                (3)

for t = 1, · · · , T , x′t is a vector of predictors in RN , ϵt+1 ∼ iid(0, σ 2 ).
       Initially, this model has been proposed for using observed time series to predict the target. Instead,
we use this approach for forecast combination. To draw a parallel with previous sections and align
the notation, in Equation 3, x′t corresponds to the N -dimensional set of individual forecasts, whereas
the n-dimensional vector yt+1 is the final prediction of the independent variable.
       As discussed previously, when the number of estimated coefficients is large, it is either impossible
to run OLS or there is a high variance of the latter, which can significantly decrease forecast accuracy.
To overcome both potential challenges, following Boot and Nibbering (2019), it is possible to make
a projection of N -dimensional vector xt onto a k-dimensional subspace using a permutation matrix,
denoted Ri ∈ RN ×k , such that:
                                                          x̃′t = x′t Ri

       A permutation matrix Ri is responsible for randomly selecting (without replacement) a subset of
k predictors out of all N covariates. To illustrate this idea, imagine a simple example where there are
N = 5 variables and k = 3 of those are drawn. One possible Ri can look like as follows (Boot and
Nibbering, 2020):
                                                                     
                                                           0       1 0
                                                                     
                                                          0       0 0
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                     Ri = 1
                                                                     
                                                                   0 0
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                          0       0 1
                                                                     
                                                           0       0 0
   1
       Complete subspace methods imply that for a given set of predictors, forecasts from all possible linear regressions are
combined.




                                                               8
        It should be noted that there are different methods to generate Ri . Instead of selecting a subset
of covariates, weighted averages can be used to construct a different set of predictions. Weights can
be chosen randomly from a normal distribution (random projections). Moreover, the proposed speci-
fication of RSM implies that the selection is carried out using a uniform distribution (the probability
that a given variable is selected is equal across the covariate set). It is also feasible to use so-called
importance sampling probabilities or leverage scores (Mahoney et al., 2011). The rest of the paper
uses coordinate subsampling via a 0–1 permutation matrix with uniform inclusion probabilities via
RSM.
        Assigning an equal probability to each of the covariates can be partially explained by the following
logic. Suppose there is a concern that, for a given model, randomly selected covariates might be
less relevant than the rest of the pool. At the same time, most (if not all) of the time series used
for macroeconomic predictions are correlated. That fact hints at two possible conclusions. First, a
“less” relevant covariate is likely correlated with one that possesses more predictive power. Moreover,
repeating this procedure – drawing variables randomly and averaging results over each iteration –
makes the model less prone to ’uninformative’ variable selection.
        Conditional on a drawn Ri , a k-dimensional vector of OLS coefficients β̂ i can be obtained, as
well as a single aggregated forecast value of ŷt+1 . We are interested in both statistics. First, by
averaging different ŷt+1 , we claim that the RSM method could be beneficial for forecast aggregation,
providing better predictions compared to more standard metrics. Later, we demonstrate the forecast
performance of this method compared to benchmarks.


4        Theoretical Model

Suppose, there are m individual forecasts ft = (f1t , . . . , fmt )′ of a scalar target variable yt = µt + ϵt .
Each forecast in ft is assumed to be unbiased. Additionally, the vector of forecast errors relative to
the conditional target component is to be defined. The m-dimensional vector of forecasts errors is
denoted as ut = ft − µt ιm , where ιm is the m-dimensional vector of ones.

Assumption 1. Target innovation: E(ϵt ) = 0, V ar(ϵt ) = σϵ2 > 0, E(ϵt uit ) = 0                      ∀i.

Assumption 2. Forecast-error covariance: E(ut ) = 0, V ar(ut ) = Σe,m ≻ 0.

        Following Elliott and Liao (2025), we can rewrite the setup as follows2 :

                                                             
                                              yt     µt     σϵ2 0
                                               ∼   ,         
                                              ft     µt     0 Σe,m
,
    2
        Without loss of generality, we consider a fixed forecast horizon t + 1. The latter subscript is omitted for simplicity.




                                                                9
   We treat the set of m candidate forecasts as exogenous draws from an unbiased forecast distribution
conditional on information at time t. Σe,m summarizes cross-forecast dispersion: its diagonal elements
capture the marginal forecast-error variance (no forecasters know the true model) and its off-diagonals
capture how strongly forecast errors co-move.
   This setup allows for constructing the Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss function of any combined
forecast if the latter is obtained by a weighted average (linear combination) of given forecasts under
                                                                                          ′ f −y =
the assumption that the weights sum up to one. That is, if one produces a point forecast wm  it t

w′ ut − ϵt such that    ′ = 1, the desired loss function has the following form:
                     P
                       ωm


                                           ′                    ′
                                 L = (1 − ωm ιm )2 µ2t + σϵ2 + ωm Σe,m ωm                           (4)
                                     |     {z       } |          {z     }
                                            Bias                V ariance

   However, when combining unbiased forecasts under the constraint that their corresponding weights
add up to one, the final prediction will be unbiased. Thus, the first (bias) term in the Equation 4
is zero, and the comparison across such different methods comes down to minimizing the variance
                                          ′ Σ
estimation part, which is equal to σϵ2 + ωm   e,m ωm .

   The loss function depends on two entries: the vector of weights ωm and the variance-covariance
matrix of individual forecasts Σe,m . Notice the target innovation σϵ2 is common to all forecasts com-
binations and refers to the irreducible noise shared by all combinations.
   For both equal weighting and optimal weights, it is possible to derive the closed-form expression
for the loss function. When averaging, each weight is the same for each forecast. Therefore, the vector
of weights and the loss, in this case, is equal to:


                             wave = m−1 ιm ,       Lave = σϵ2 + m−2 ι′m Σe,m ιm .                   (5)

   The weights and corresponding loss for the optimal combination can be denoted as

                      wopt = (ι′m Σ−1      −1 ′ −1
                                   e,m ιm ) ιm Σe,m ,      Lopt = σϵ2 + (ι′m Σ−1      −1
                                                                              e,m ιm ) .            (6)

   Finally, a specific estimation error form of the loss Lopt is defined. This inflation factor, denoted
I(T, k), is due to the estimation error arising from running restricted OLS. There are several potential
choices of the its form. For example, Elliott and Liao (2025) assume so-called ”best case scenario”,
where it is characterized by the expression I(T, m) = (1 + m−1
                                                            T ). This multiplicative term is a

reduced-form way to capture finite-sample estimation noise from estimating m − 1 free weights under
the sum-to-one constraint. Instead, we adopt a finite-sample factor for expected out-of-sample variance
                                                                                                 −1
inflation for estimating m − 1 regression coefficients. In this case, this factor is I(T, m) = TT−m . It
is possible to see that Elliott and Liao (2025) use the first order approximation of this factor which
yields under m << T :




                                                      10
                                    T −1     m−1      m−1
                                         =1+      ≈1+
                                    T −m     T −m      T
   Therefore, the loss for the optimal combination weights could be approximated by the following
expression:

                                                                                  
                                          opt                         T −1
                                      L         ≈ (σε2 + Qopt )                        ,             (7)
                                                                      T −m
where Qopt = (ι′m Σ−1      −1
                   e,m ιm ) .

   This expression of the loss function is used later to compare optimal weights to the weights obtained
by RSM. Notice, there is no estimation penalty for the equal weighting since no weights are estimated.
Thus, the benchmark loss for equal weighting is as follows:


                                                 Lave = σϵ2 + Qave ,

where Qave = m−2 ι′m Σe,m ιm .
   This setup allows to show the importance of the irreducible noise σϵ2 . Boot and Nibbering (2019),
inter alia, subtract this term prior to further calculations since a standard assumption is that it plays
no role in choosing ωm . However, as shown in Elliott and Liao (2025), the irreducible component
goes directly into loss function which is inflated by the estimation error. That is why, ignoring the
irreducible noise can potentially alter further arguments. We adopt the framework used in Elliott and
Liao (2025), thus σϵ2 enters our model.


4.1   Random Subspace Method for Forecast Combination

We start from the simple example when one random subset S ⊂ {1, . . . , m} of size k is drawn uniformly
without replacement from m
                             
                            k possible subsets. Let Σe,k,S denote the k × k principal submatrix of

Σe,m indexed by S. Inside subset S, the population optimal subset weights are as follows:

                                                          Σ−1
                                                           e,k,S ιk
                                                  ωS =                   .                           (8)
                                                         ι′k Σ−1
                                                              e,k,S ιk

   We embed these weights into Rm by defining vS = PS wS , where PS places the k selected weights
in their original coordinates and sets all other m − k coordinates to zero. Then, vS′ ιm = 1, which
ensures that the weights still sum up to one. More formally, we can write:

                                                 Σ−1
                                                   e,k,S ιk
                                                                             m
                                                                             X
                                 vS = Ps ωS = Ps ′ −1        ,                     vS = 1.           (9)
                                                ιk Σe,k,S ιk                 i=1

   Introducing vS allows us to define three separate population risks. This can be achieved because
the matrix PS zero-pads the weights from subset S of size k into Rm . Therefore, the embedded
full-dimensional form and its subset counterpart are the same:


                                                          11
                                         vS′ Σe,m vS = ωS′ Σe,k,S ωS

   First, the average subset population risk that uses a single draw S and computes the expected loss
over all possible subsets.

Definition 1 (Average subset RSM). The average-subset population risk is defined as:

                                              ′
                                    Qsub
                                     k = ES [vS Σe,m vS ] = ES [Q(S)],                                (10)

where
                                         Q(S) = (ι′k Σ−1        −1
                                                      e,k,S ιk ) .                                    (11)

   The average subset population risk takes a random subset draw of k forecasts, computes the
population-optimal weights within the chosen subset vS , and reports the single forecast vS′ ft . On the
population level, it computes the expected loss over the random draw of S. In other words, it averages
the subset risk across all possible subsets before a single one is drawn. This means, intuitively, a
decision-maker who chooses one draw gets a risk oscillating around Qsub
                                                                    k   depending on which S is
drawn at random from all m
                           
                          k subsets of size k.

   Alternatively, Qsub
                   k   can be viewed as the average of losses across subsets. However, RSM, as
described in this paper, follows a different procedure. It first averages the weight vectors – and
forecasts themselves – then evaluates a single loss value based on averaging. To describe the latter
approach, we can define two versions of the potential losses that depend on the number of draws.
   First, we consider a case when a finite amount of draws are taken.

Definition 2 (Finite-bagged RSM). Suppose, G independent subsets S1 , . . . , SG of size k are drawn
uniformly at random. The averaged weight vectors in this case can be represented as:
                                                          G
                                                    1 X
                                            v̂k,G =     vSg .                                         (12)
                                                    G
                                                          g=1

                              ′ f . Unlike the average subset case, the loss is computed for the aggregated
Thus, the final forecast is v̂k,G t

forecast rather by averaging individual losses per subset. The finite-bagged population risk, averaging
over subset draws, is as follows:
                                        Qbag,G
                                         k
                                                     ′
                                               = E[v̂k,G Σe,m v̂k,G ].

   Qbag,G
    k     characterizes the loss after finitely many selections of subsets. On practice a decision-maker
gets this value as potential loss after using RSM. Therefore, this quantity is crucial in the analysis.
However, it is possible to explore the case when G → ∞, thus obtaining an infinite-bagged RSM.

Definition 3 (Infinite-bagged RSM). Suppose you take infinitely many draws of subsets of size k.
Then, the infinite-bagged RSM weight vector is defined as:

                                               v̄k = ES [vS ].                                        (13)

                                                     12
Therefore, the infinite-bagged population risk can be expressed as follows:

                                           Qbag,∞
                                            k     = v̄k′ Σe,m v̄k .                                (14)

   Notice that Qbag,∞
                k     describes the deterministic risk of the fixed weight vector v̄k . This is achieved
with the help of the law of large numbers as G → ∞. Moreover, due to convexity of the population
risk function in vS , we can show by applying Jensen inequality that:

                                  ′                       ′                   bag,∞
                        Qsub
                         k = ES [vS Σe,m vS ] ≥ (ES [vS ]) Σe,m (ES [vS ]) = Qk                    (15)

   This means that infinite bagging produces the loss not greater than the single-draw estimator since
the assumption Σe,m ≻ 0 makes v ′ Σe,m v strictly convex. The equality occurs when vS is constant across
subsets. The case vS = v̄k happens only when k = m. Whenever vS is not constant across subsets,
the Inequality 15 is strict.
   After defining three population risks, it is possible to show the relationship between them:

Proposition 1 (Finite-bagging bridge). For independent subset draws,

                                                      1  sub        
                                Qbag,G
                                 k     = Qbag,∞
                                          k     +        Qk − Qbag,∞
                                                               k       .                           (16)
                                                      G

Consequently,
                                        Qbag,∞
                                         k     ≤ Qbag,G
                                                  k     ≤ Qsub
                                                           k .


   The proof can be found in Appendix A.
   Equation 16 shows two important takeaways. First, it relates three population losses to each other
regardless of distributional assumption on {ft }. The expected finite loss can be represented as its
infinite counterpart plus the bagged error – the averaged difference between the infinite expected loss
and the expected loss of a single draw. Therefore, it depicts the fact that increasing G monotonically
reduces the finite-bagged population risk until the infinite-bagged population risk is reached. It is
worth mentioning a couple of special cases:

   • when G = 1, Qbag,1
                  k     = Qsub
                           k


   • when G → ∞, Qbag,G
                  k     → Qbag,∞

   The latter special case is particularly valuable. It illustrates that if the number of draws G is
rather large, Qbag,G
               k     can be arbitrarily close to its infinite bagged counterpart Qbag,∞
                                                                                  k     .
   Second, Equation 16 shows the ordering of the losses. Through Inequality 15, we show Qsub
                                                                                         k   ≥
Qbag,∞
 k     . On the other hand, Equation 16 places Qbag,G
                                                k     in-between the other losses. In other words, the
finite bagged RSM is an intermediate case between the infinite bagged version and average subset RSM,
which can be arbitrarily close to former if G is large enough. Therefore, for the rest of the paper, we
assume that G is selected such that the bagged error is close to 0. Correspondingly, Qbag,G
                                                                                      k     ≈ Qbag,∞
                                                                                               k     .

                                                     13
4.2   Global and Conditional RSM Weights

We can analyze how the RSM weights change depending on the subset size k in some general cases.
First, suppose that k = 1. This means that every subset is a singleton S = i, where only one variable
i is selected. Within this subset the constrained OLS assigns the full weight to the drawn forecast and
zero to all other forecasts. Namely:


                                       v{i},i = 1,   v{i},j = 0   ∀j ̸= i

                                                                          1
   Since each singleton {i} is drawn uniformly at random with probability m , the infinite-bagged
weight can be represented as:


                                           1     m−1     1          1
                    v̄1,i = ES [vS,i ] =     ·1+     ·0=   =⇒ v̄1 =   = wave
                                           m      m      m          m
   Thus, in population, the infinite-bagged RSM with k = 1 produces the equal weights.
   Similarly, we can study the case when k = m. Then, there is only one full subset S = {1, . . . , m}
which excludes the random selection. In this case, the constrained OLS produces optimal weights:


                                 v̄m = vS = (ι′m Σ−1      −1 ′ −1
                                                  e,m ιm ) ιm Σe,m = w
                                                                       opt


   The averaging over G random subsets is not necessary in this case since all subsets are the same –
full subset, to be precise. Therefore, when k = m, one constrained OLS will produce the same result
even if you repeat it G times due to unchanged subset selection.

Proposition 2 (RSM as a unifier). Both equal weighting and optimal weighting are the special cases
of RSM. If k = 1, RSM collapses in population to equal weighting, whereas if the full set of m forecasts
is used, RSM produces optimal weights.

   These special cases when k = 1 and k = m reveal an important conclusion. RSM interpolates
between the equal weighting and optimal weighting as k increases. It contains both these standard
benchmarks inside itself. This conclusion shows the flexibility of RSM.
   If forecasts are homogeneous such that their optimal weights are equal to or close to equal weighting,
RSM presumably detects it through showing the lowest loss is achieved with small k. On the contrary, if
using all available forecasts is feasible (in the case when T >> m), then RSM selects k = m. However,
in many real-world applications the forecasts are heterogeneous enough to make equal weighting
unreliable whereas computing full optimal weights on the short panel of forecasts when T is not large
compared to m yields noisy estimations. This is why, the intermediate solution 1 < k < m can
produce the lower loss in comparison to the benchmarks. This means, instead of choosing between
equal weighting and optimal weighting schemes ad hoc, one may estimate RSM with different k and
presumably get the results not worse than any of the benchmarks.

                                                      14
    So far, we refer only to the global RSM weight. However, it is possible to establish a correspondence
between a global weight and a conditional weight. The latter is conditional on being select in a subset
S. More formally, when subsets of size k are selected uniformly at random we can write the RSM
global weight by definition as follows:


                                                                             k
                       v̄k,i = ES [vS,i ] = P (i ∈ S) · ES [wS,i |i ∈ S] =     ES [wS,i |i ∈ S]                (17)
                                                                             m
    Equation 17 illustrates how the global and conditional weights are related to each other. Suppose
after using RSM, a forecast i has a weight greater than the equal weight. In this case:

Proposition 3 (Global and conditional weights correspondence). Forecasts earn above-average weight
in the global bagged combination if and only if they earn above-average weight within the subsets they
appear in:


                                                1                       1
                                      v̄k,i >     ⇐⇒ ES [wS,i |i ∈ S] >
                                                m                       k
    This relationship between the weights has a natural interpretation. A given forecast cannot obtain
a weight exceeding a equal weight without consistently outperforming it across subsets. Therefore, the
global weight is dictated by its subset counterpart. This equivalence holds because the two benchmarks
1
m   and k1 differ by the inclusion probability under uniform rule m
                                                                  k
                                                                    . The same quantity links global
and conditional weights. Hence global importance is achieved locally. Alternatively, a forecast that is
useful across different subsets is assigned a higher value at the global level.
    Notice that both Proposition 2 and Proposition 3 require no assumptions on Σe,m apart from it
being a positive-definite matrix.


4.3    Common-Loading Heteroskedastic Forecast Error Model

We establish RSM in the general form without any additional assumptions on Σe,m . Every method (op-
timal weighting, averaging, RSM) relies on it since this matrix defines the loss through Qopt , Qave , Qbag,G
                                                                                                        k     ,
respectively. For infinite bagged RSM and average subset RSM, Σe.m also enters in Qbag,∞
                                                                                   k     and Qsub
                                                                                              k .

    For further results we assume that forecast errors ut are characterized by a common-loading het-
eroskedastic structure. Formally:

Assumption 3 (Forecast errors). Let forecast error be defined as follows:

                                                  ut = λFt ιm + ξt ,

    where all forecasts have the same factor loading λ, V ar(λFt ) = q > 0 and V ar(ξt ) = D =
diag(σ12 , . . . , σm
                    2 ), with at least one pair such that σ 2 ̸= σ 2 for i ̸= j. E(ξ ) = 0, Cov(F , ξ ) = 0.
                                                           i      j                 t            t t




                                                         15
      In other words, the forecast error vector ut can be decomposed into two quantities: a common
factor that drives a shock to all m forecasts with the same loading λ and forecast-specific variation
that is captured by ξt .
      Assumption 3 in different variations is used in the literature. For instance, Lahiri and Sheng
(2010) write forecast errors as the sum of a component common to all forecasters and idiosyncratic
errors. Similarly, Elliott and Liao (2026), based on the SPF data, impose similar restrictions on the
forecast error structure. A more general form with heterogeneous loadings and residual cross-sectional
dependence can be found in Lee and Seregina (2020).
      In this setup, the full forecast-error covariance matrix can be expressed as follows:


                                               Σe = qιm ι′m + D                                       (18)

      The common loading assumption allows us to define the analogous matrix for a subset S of size
k. Since the common component q is the same across all subsets, the forecast-error covariance matrix
Σe,S for a subset S of size k is described as follows:


                                Σe,S = qιk ι′k + DS ,    DS = diag(σi2 |i ∈ S),                       (19)

where DS is the k × k principal submatrix of D obtained by keeping only the columns and rows of
forecasts that get drawn in a subset S. In the common loading case, DS is diagonal regardless of the
subset taken.
      To express further results more conveniently, let us introduce some additional notations.

Definition 4 (Forecast precision). A forecast precision of a forecast i is the inverse of its corresponding
σ2:                                                                               
                                                                    1          1
                                  τi = σi−2   =⇒ D = diag              ,··· ,
                                                                    τi        τm
Definition 5 (Sums of precisions). Suppose a subset S is chosen uniformly at random as before. The
sum of precisions over the subset S can be expressed as follows:
                                                         X
                                                 AS =          τi
                                                         i∈S

Similarly, the sum of precisions over the full panel of m forecasts has a following form
                                                         m
                                                         X
                                                 Am =          τi                                     (20)
                                                         i=1

      With the help of notations from Definition 4 and Definition 5, we can define the subset risk under
common loading hetereskedastic forecast error structure as follows:

Proposition 4 (Subset risk under common loading). For any subset S of size k, the subset loss is as
follows:
                                                                1
                                               Q(S) = q +                                             (21)
                                                               AS

                                                        16
whereas the subset optimal weights are:

                                                      τi
                                             wi,S =      ,    i ∈ S.                                        (22)
                                                      AS

   The proof can be found in Appendix B.
   The subset loss Q(S) consists of two items: the irreducible common loading component q and the
inverse sum of forecast precisions drawn in the subset. The function Q(S) is strictly decreasing with
respect to the size of the subset k for the nested subsets since τi > 0 for all i. This means that by
adding one may achieve a lower loss with the minimum value obtained by using k = m, that collapses
to optimal weighting. This results once again shows the property of optimal weighting – its theoretical
loss is the lowest possible. However, as discussed at the beginning of Section 4, the estimation error
captured by the inflation factor I(T, m) potentially prevents it to produce the lowest loss in practice.
Also, notice that optimal subset weight, unlike the subset loss, does not depend on q: it is a function
of the forecast precision vector τ .


4.4    Optimal and Equal Weighting under Common Loading

It is possible to define corresponding losses for the optimal weighting and equal weighting under the
common loading heteroskedastic forecast errors in a similar way. The optimal weight for a forecast i
can be rewritten in terms of τi as follows:


                                               σ −2             τi
                                     wiopt = Pm i −2 =⇒ wiopt =
                                              j=1 σj
                                                                Am

   and its loss, Qopt , as discussed in Section 4.3, has a similar form of the individual subset loss Q(S).
The only difference is that optimal weights uses all m forecasts rather than k, which leads to the
denominator of the second item be Am instead of AS . That is why, Qopt has a following form:


                                                              1
                                                Qopt = q +
                                                             Am
                                                                                               1
On the other hand, the equal weighting produces the same weights as previously, that is wave = m .
It does not take into account the heterogeneity across forecasts. By plugging the full forecast-error
covariance matrix, as defined per Equation 18, we obtain the corresponding loss for equal weighting:

                                                                   P      −1
                                               1                       i τi
                                       ave
                                       Q     = 2 ι′m Σe ιm = q +
                                              m                        m2
   To illustrate the hidden similarity between the two losses, Qopt and Qave , let us denote B = τ̄1 and
H = σ 2 τ̄ , where τ̄ is the mean precision and σ 2 is the mean idiosyncratic variance.
   Then, B is the harmonic-mean idiosyncratic variance, or, alternatively, the reciprocal of average
precision. It illustrates the scale of idiosyncratic noise and sets the overall level of the latter. Intuitively,
it depicts how noisy a typical forecast is without taking into account heterogeneity. if forecasts are

                                                        17
more precise, it leads to larger τ̄ value. This, in turn, decreases the value of B and allows to achieve
lower loss.
   On the other hand, H is a product of mean variance σ 2 and mean precision (τ̄ ).It measures how
spread out the idiosyncratic variances are. Notice, that H is the ratio of the arithmetic mean to the
harmonic mean of the variances. Thus, H ≥ 1 with equality if and only if all σi2 are equal to each
other, which corresponds to the equicorrelation case, when equal weights are the optimal.
   Let us rewrite both loss functions by plugging B and H. In this case, we have:


                                 B                  BH                     B(H − 1)
                    Qopt = q +     ,   Qave = q +      ,   Qave − Qopt =
                                 m                   m                        m
   This correspondence shows that the equal-weight loss can never beat the optimal weights in pop-
ulation, and the two coincide in the homogeneous case (all σi2 are the same), thus forcing H = 1.
Furthermore, it strengthens the reasoning of when RSM using k > 1 forecasts can outperform equal
weighting – that is only when variances are dispersed enough such that the difference Qave − Qopt is
substantial.


4.5   RSM under Common Loading

4.6   Average subset RSM

Proposition 4 provides a subset loss under common loading. To derive a expected population loss of
average subset RSM, the expectation over all S needs to be taken.

Proposition 5 (average subset risk under common loading). Using Taylor expansion, population
average subset risk Qsub
                     k   can be written as

                                                  1     m − k vτ
                        Qsub                                         + O k −3 ,
                                                                             
                         k = ES [Q(S)] = q +         + 2           3
                                                                                                   (23)
                                                 kτ̄  k (m − 1) τ̄

and, in leading order in k,
                                                    B
                                       Qsub           + O k −2 .
                                                              
                                        k =q+                                                      (24)
                                                    k
   The proof can be found in Appendix C.
   Notice that the Qsub
                    k   approximation stated in Proposition 5 looks similar to Qopt with the only
difference being that the second item is divided by the subset size k rather than by m. Therefore,
inequality Qsub
            k   > Qopt still holds in population. However, the estimation error that is captured by
the inflation factor is less than the one used in the optimal case, i.e I(T, k) < I(T, m).
                                                            ∗
   We can write an optimization problem to find an optimal ksub which minimizes average subset
expected population loss:

                                                        
                                         2       B    T −1
                               Lsub
                                k ≈     σϵ + q +             → min                                 (25)
                                                 k    T −k


                                                    18
   which yields:

                           p
             ∗     −B +     B 2 + (σϵ2 + q)BT
            ksub =                            > 0,     k ∗ = min{m, max{1, round(ksub
                                                                                  ∗
                                                                                      )}}
                             σϵ2 + q
   The proof can be found in Appendix D.
                                            ∗ , which minimized the optimization function. Moreover,
   There is always a non-negative solution ksub
                                                         √
the optimal subset dimension depends scales roughly as T with T being large compared to B, σϵ2 ,
                 ∗
and q. However, ksub needs to be clipped such that it is always between 1 and m. In other words,
                                  ∗ > m, the full panel is to be used. The same logic applies to the
when T is large enough such that ksub
                 ∗ ) < 1.
case when round(ksub


4.7   Infinite Bagged RSM

Average subset risk evaluates the loss of a randomly selected subset before averaging across subset
draws. On the contrary, infinite-bagged RSM averages the subset forecasts first and then evaluates
the loss of the resulting combination. In this subsection, we analyze the infinite bagged RSM loss in
the common loading case.
   For a fixed subset S, the embedded subset weight is
                                                            τi
                                          vS,i = 1{i ∈ S}      .                                   (26)
                                                            AS
Therefore the infinite-bagged weight on forecast i is
                                                     "                    #
                                              k             1
                          v̄i,k = ES [vS,i ] = τi ER       P           i∈S ,                       (27)
                                              m        τi + j∈R τj

   The average-subset derivation in Appendix C, uses ES [1/AS ], an unconditional expectation that
has a clean representation. For the infinite bagged case, though, we need ES [1/AS | i ∈ S], the
conditional expectation of 1/AS given that forecaster i is present.
                                                                P
   When i ∈ S, the sum AS = τi + AS\{i} , where AS\{i} = j∈S,j̸=i τj is the sum of k − 1 other
precisions drawn from {τj }j̸=i . Taylor expansion of 1/AS around AS\{i} yields:
                                                                  
                                         1                    1
                                   ES       i∈S =E                     ,                           (28)
                                        AS               τi + AS\{i}
which is a harmonic mean shifted by τi . This depends on the entire distribution of precision sums over
the subsets of size (k − 1) of {τj }j̸=i . There is no general closed form for this conditional harmonic
mean without somehow restricting the profile {τi }. The conditioning on i ∈ S creates per-forecaster
dependence that destroys this simplicity in comparison to the average subset case. However, it is
possible to express Qbag,∞
                                             P
                     k     as follows. Since   i v̄i,k = 1, the common factor contributes q to the

bagged risk. Thus:
                                                       m   2
                                                         v̄i,k
                                        Qbag,∞
                                                       X
                                         k     =q+                 .                               (29)
                                                             τi
                                                       i=1
   This allows us to make a following proposition.

                                                  19
Proposition 6 (RSM bagged risk representation). In the common-loading model,

                                         Qbag,∞
                                          k     = Qopt + Rkbag ,                                  (30)

where
                                                m
                                                  (v̄i,k − wopt )2
                                    Rkbag =
                                                X
                                                                          i
                                                                                ≥ 0.              (31)
                                                                   τi
                                                i=1
or alternatively
                                               1 X
                                    Rkbag =        τi (gi (k) − 1/τ̄ )2                           (32)
                                               m2
                                                          i
where                                                                  
                                                                   1
                                      gi (k) = k ES                  i∈S .                        (33)
                                                                  AS
   The proof can be found in Appendix E.
   By Equation 31, Rkbag is the squared distance, between the bagged weights v̄i,k and the oracle
weights wopt . Moreover, the endpoints connect infinite bagged RSM to the standard combination
                                                             1
rules. When k = 1, uniform subset selection produces v̄i,1 = m and the R1bag illustrates the squared
difference between the equal weighting and the optimal weighting schemes. This difference is small,
when two weighting methods yield similar weights. In contrast, if k = m, the full subset selection
implies v̄i,m = wiopt and Rm
                           bag
                               = 0. For intermediate cases 1 < k < m, the infinite bagged RSM moves
in between and the performance depends on the speed of convergence to the optimal weights.
   The score representation, as presented in Equation 32 gives a useful interpretation of the infinite-
bagged RSM weights. Since
                                                              τi
                                                v̄i,k =          gi (k),
                                                              m
the quantity gi (k) can be interpreted as the conditional inverse-precision adjustment induced by draw-
ing subsets that contain forecaster i. These scores satisfy the following property:
                                               m
                                               X
                                                        τi gi (k) = m.
                                               i=1

or equivalently,
                                         m                               
                                         X                       1
                                               τi       gi (k) −              = 0.
                                                                 τi
                                         i=1
Thus RSM does not change the total mass of the combination weights: the sum of the weights is
always 1 regardless of the subset size k. However, it redistributes this mass across forecasts through
the conditional harmonic terms gi (k).
   In this score scale, the full oracle corresponds to the constant score:

                                                                   1
                                                     giopt =          ,
                                                                   τ̄

because
                                                         τi   τi
                                          wiopt =            = giopt .
                                                         mτ̄  m

                                                              20
    Consequently, the excess-risk representation measures exactly how far the RSM scores gi (k) remain
from the oracle score 1/τ̄ . The endpoints are also transparent. When k = 1, each selected subset
contains only one forecaster, so AS = τi conditional on i ∈ S, and therefore

                                                          1
                                              gi (1) =       .
                                                          τi

This gives
                                                    τi 1  1
                                          v̄i,1 =        = ,
                                                    m τi  m
so infinite-bagged RSM once again coincides with equal weighting. When k = m, the only possible
subset is the full set, so AS = Am = mτ̄ , and therefore

                                                       k  1
                                          gi (m) =       = .
                                                      Am  τ̄

Hence
                                                    τi
                                          v̄i,m =       = wiopt .
                                                    mτ̄

4.8     Bounds on Rk

The representation above shows that Rkbag is the squared distance between the infinite-bagged RSM
weights and the oracle weights. Although the conditional harmonic means inside gi (k) do not admit
a general closed form, the excess risk can still be bounded. Let

                                                     1  1
                                             zk =      − ,
                                                     k m

Proposition 7 (Exact bracket for infinite-bagged excess risk). For every 1 ≤ k ≤ m,

                           (kES [1/AS ] − 1/τ̄ )2                         1
                             Pm 2                 ≤ Rkbag ≤ ES [1/AS ] −    .
                               i=1 σi − m/τ̄                             Am

Assumption 4 (Marginal regularity). Let

                                                                        1  1
                               ∆Rk = Rkbag − Rk+1
                                              bag
                                                  ,              zk =     − .
                                                                        k m

For 1 ≪ k ≪ m, suppose there exist constants 0 < dL ≤ dU < ∞, independent of T and k, such that

                               dL zk2 − zk+1
                                         2
                                             
                                               ≤ ∆Rk ≤ dU (zk − zk+1 ) .

Equivalently, for k ≪ m,
                                          ∆Rk ≍ [k −3 , k −2 ],

in the sense that it is bounded below by a constant multiple of k −3 and above by a constant multiple
of k −2 .




                                                     21
Proposition 8 (Rate window for the optimal subset size). Let

                                          bag T − 1
                                            
                           Lbag
                            k   =   A + R k         ,           A = σϵ2 + Qopt > 0.
                                               T −k

Let
                                          kT∗ ∈ arg min Lbag
                                                         k .
                                                        1≤k≤m

Suppose Assumption 5 holds, Rkbag is uniformly bounded, and the pool size m is large enough that the
relevant range satisfies T 1/2 ≪ m. Then

                               kT∗ = Ω(T 1/3 )      and         kT∗ = O(T 1/2 ).

Thus the optimal subset size lies between the cube-root and square-root rates:

                                            T 1/3 ≲ kT∗ ≲ T 1/2 .

If m is fixed or grows more slowly than T 1/2 , the upper rate is truncated by the constraint k ≤ m.


5      Monte Carlo Simulations

5.1     Monte Carlo Design

We evaluate the forecast-combination performance of RSM relative to the equal-weighted mean via
Monte Carlo experiments. The simulation design follows Samuels and Sekkel (2017) and Alvarez et al.
(2012). In all experiments, the number of predictors is fixed at N = 50. We run P = 500 replications
and consider the time series length T ∈ {100, 500}.
      The data generating process (DGP) for independent variables xt is specified as a dynamic factor
structure:


                                              xt = Ft Λ + ϵt ,                                     (34)

where Λ is a column vector of N ones. Ft is defined as an AR(1) process:

                                                                 iid
                                   Ft = ϕf Ft−1 + ϵft         ϵft ∼ N (0, 1)

We selected ϕf = {0.3, 0.7} to account for different persistence of Ft . Additionally, the error term in
Equation 34 also follows the AR(1) process:

                                                                iid
                                   ϵt = ϕη ϵt−1 + ϵηt        ϵηt ∼ N (0, Σ),

where the variance-covariance Σ is given by Toeplitz matrix of the form Σij = ρ|i−j| or alternatively:




                                                        22
                                                                                        
                                                1        ρ         ρ2      · · · ρN −1
                                                                                      
                                           ρ            1         ρs      · · · ρN −2 
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                      Σ =  ρ2           ρ         1       · · · ρN −3  .
                                                                                      
                                           ..           ..        ..              .. 
                                                                                      
                                                                           ..
                                           .             .         .          .    . 
                                                                                      
                                              ρN −1 ρN −2 ρN −3            ···     1
The chosen form of Σ allows us to introduce correlation into the idiosyncratic components across
different predictors. We consider ρ = {0, 0.8}. Similar to ϕf , we fix ϕη = {0.3, 0.7}
       Finally, the DGP for the dependent variable yt+1 is defined as a linear combination of predictors
{xit }N
      i=1 :
                                                                            iid
                                        yt+1 = β ′ xt + εt+1            εt+1 ∼ N (0, 1)

       The literature suggests multiple specifications for β (Samuels and Sekkel, 2017). In this paper, we
restrict our attention to a case where the sparsity is introduced. To be more specific, in the simulations
β = c[11×10 , 01×(N −10) ] is assumed. Under this assumption, only the first ten variables – without loss
of generality – have equal importance, whereas the rest of the predictors have zero loading in the DGP
for yt+1 . Such sparsity is standard in macroeconomic applications, especially in forecasting.
       Following Inoue and Kilian (2008), the scaling constant c is chosen to match target population R2
values of {0.1, 0.3, 0.5}. This parameterization spans low-, medium-, and high-signal environments for
the dependent variable.
       Based on each xit , an out-of-sample prediction for yt+1 is constructed with the help of a simple
bivariate OLS regression:


                                                    yt+1 = κi xit + ϵit

Thus, the forecast pool consists of N univariate (bivariate-in-estimation) forecasts, each using only
one predictor xit (without an intercept), re-estimated with an expanding window at each origin. Later,
these forecasts are combined via the RSM, the equal-weighted mean, or the optimal weighting and
evaluated against the realized yt+1 . The RSM subset size is selected by cross-validation: we consider
k = {2 . . . N }, where if n = k, the estimation collapses to full OLS. Conditional on the selected k, we
execute the RSM 1,000 times and average the resulting predictions.
       The evaluation sample is Teval = 20 periods, and κi is estimated using an expanding window. We
measure forecasting accuracy using Relative Root Mean Squared Forecast Error (rRMSFE), defined
as follows:3

                                                qP
                                                  N                RSM 2
                                                     i=1 (yt+h − ŷt+h|t )
                                                                                             RSM
                                                                                      RM SF Et+h
                            rRM SF Et+h = qP                                      =          mean ,   (35)
                                                     N             mean 2             RM SF Et+h
                                                     i=1 (yt+h − ŷt+h|t )

   3
       Here, h = 1, as we focus on one-step-ahead forecasts in these simulations.


                                                              23
           This metric facilitates comparison of the forecast-combination performance of the two approaches.
A value below one indicates that RSM delivers more accurate forecasts than the standard equal-
weighting scheme.


5.2                  Monte Carlo Results

Figure 3 reports relative forecasting performance for T = 100, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7 first
                                                                                               √
highlighting the role of R2 in a small-sample setting. The vertical line corresponds to the k = T
rounded to the nearest integer.



          1.50




                                                                                                           R2


 rRMSFE
          1.25
                                                                                                                0.1
                                                                                                                0.3
                                                                                                                0.5



                          0.98
          1.00
                                    0.99
                                 0.91

                                    0.91
                                           0.81

                                    0.81
          0.75
                 0                  10             20                      30      40              50
                                                        subset dimension



                       Figure 3: Relative forecasting performance (T = 100, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)


           The curves are (approximately) parallel, indicating that RSM’s performance improves monotoni-
cally with R2 . This is unsurprising since higher values of R2 imply that the predictors explain more
of the target’s variation. Accordingly, combining forecasts can improve accuracy.
           It is worth noticing that for R2 ∈ {0.3, 0.5} the RSM dominates the equal-weighted mean. Their
minimum values lie below one. By contrast, when R2 = 0.1, gains are negligible: with a weak signal,
individual forecasts have little predictive content, and their RSM aggregate is (almost) no better than
                                                 √
the simple mean. Notice that by setting k = T the loss of gains is negligible compared to the true
optimal subset size k ∗ . Those results are verified through all the scenarios, indicating that α ≈ 1 in
the Equation ??. The rest of the plots depicting the relative forecasting performance can be found in
Appendix H.




                                                                 24
          1.00


                                      0.97
                                                                 0.97
          0.95




                                                                                                                  R2


 rRMSFE
                                              0.90
          0.90                                                                                                          0.1
                                                                 0.90
                                                                                                                        0.3
                                                                                                                        0.5

          0.85




          0.80
                                                     0.78

                                                                 0.78

                 0               10                         20                             30     40    50
                                                                        subset dimension



                     Figure 4: Relative forecasting performance (T = 500, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)


           Figure 4 presents relative forecasting performance for T = 500, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3. In
other words, the effect of more data availability can be analyzed since all other parameters (ρ, ϕf , ϕη
remain unchanged. The larger sample size yields substantial gains from RSM over the equal-weighted
mean, particularly at moderate and high R2 values. When R2 = 0.5, with other values fixed, the RSM
can improve forecast combination results by almost 22%.
   While tuning the optimal (or near-optimal) RSM subset size can be desirable for T = 500 and
                                                                                                √
R2 ∈ {0.3, 0.5}, a broad range of subset dimensions enhances forecasting accuracy (including k = T ).
Across simulations, the optimal subset size either coincides with the rule-of-thumb choice or is nearby.
Deviations from k ∗ yield only negligible changes in forecast error relative to the exact optimum.
           The Monte Carlo setup also allows us to evaluate QRSM (k). Figure 5 depicts the latter for the
case when T = 500, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7. For all other scenarios, QRSM (k) is also depicted,
and the corresponding plots could be found in Appendix H.1.




          1.4




                                                                                                                       R2
                                                                                                                              0.1
 Q_rs                                                                                                                         0.3
          1.2
                                                                                                                              0.5




          1.0




                 0              10                          20                               30    40        50
                                                                        subspace dimension



                                     Figure 5: QRSM (T = 500, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)


                                                                                 25
    As expected, the lowest value of QRSM (k) is attained at k = 50, i.e., when all available predictions
are included in the combination (and this holds in all other cases as well). However, the performance
improvement relative to smaller subsets becomes very small once k reaches moderate values. Overall,
this result confirms that combining only a subset of k forecasts typically incurs little additional loss
compared with using all N forecasts, while potentially reducing weight-estimation error.


6    Shapley Value Decomposition

One may explicitly pose a question of how important a given variable is to produce a predicted value
of a target series. Interestingly, a possible answer to this question comes from a different field of study,
namely game theory.
    Shapley et al. (1953) introduced a solution to the problem of fairly dividing a joint pay-off across
all individual players in a cooperative game. For almost six decades, this concept has had nothing to
do with forecasting literature. This connection remained unexplored until Strumbelj and Kononenko
(2010) established a connection between players and variables used for forecasting, as well as the
pay-off and a final prediction.
    Following Buckmann et al. (2022), it is possible to define a contribution of variable k in observation
xi and model f :
                                         X          |x′ |!(|N | − |x′ | − 1)!
                   ϕSk (xi ; f ) =                                            [f (xi |x′ ∪ {k}) − f (xi |x′ )],
                                                               |N |!
                                     x′ ⊆C(x)\{k}

where C(x) \ {k} corresponds to the set of all possible combinations of variables excluding k, |x′ | is
the number of variables included in the combination.
    Similar to the initial idea, the SVD represents a weighted sum of marginal contributions of a given
variable (player) to all possible combinations excluding this variable. Note that we se the SVD for
forecast combination. It means that a given variable, in this case, is an individual forecast. Thus, the
contribution of an individual forecast to the final prediction is obtained.
    Buckmann et al. (2022) described obstacles while estimating Equation 6. There are two major
concerns. As stated earlier, the number of possible combinations with l variables is 2l , thus it grows
exponentially. With sufficiently large l, evaluation of all possible combinations seems infeasible. Addi-
tionally, estimating the term f (xi |x′ ) is usually challenging (unless feature independence is assumed).
Both of these problems, in principle, can be dodged if one opts for tree-based (see Lundberg et al.
(2020)) or linear frameworks. In the following subsection, we describe the SVD in a linear setting and
establish a bridge between the SVD and RSM.




                                                                 26
6.1      SVD and RSM

In this subsection, we introduce the connection between RSM and the SVD. In a general forecast
combination framework:
                                 yT +h = wT +h|T,0 + wT′ +h|T ŷT +h|T + ϵT +h ,                             (36)

                                                                      wT′ +h|T = 1. However, as shown further,
                                                                  P
   If optimal weights are used, then wT +h|T,0 = 0 and
both restrictions do not influence the SVD decomposition. In other words, practically, it does not
matter whether to exploit the restricted or unrestricted OLS combined with RSM.
   The contribution ϕj of a j-th forecast ŷT +h|T,j on the total prediction yT +h is the difference between
the feature effect and the average effect. More formally, one could express it as follows:

              ϕj = wT′ +h|T,j ŷT +h|T,j − E(wT′ +h|T,j Xj ) = wT′ +h|T,j [ŷT +h|T,j − E(ŷT +h|T,j )]

   Let us combine this decomposition with RSM. It is straightforward to observe that in order to
obtain ϕj , one only misses the OLS coefficient (restricted or unrestricted) wT′ +h|T,j . However, in a
high-dimensional case, directly obtaining βxj may be complicated. RSM can assist in addressing this
issue.
   To illustrate the idea, suppose a variable xj was selected 50 times within RSM. This implies that
one has 50 different estimations of wT′ +h|T,j , each based on different subsamples. However, a term
[ŷT +h|T,j − E(ŷT +h|T,j )] remains the same across all the iterations. Thus, it is possible to obtain an
averaged contribution of ϕj by averaging across different realizations of estimated wT′ +h|T,j , as depicted
below:
                                   ϕ¯j = ŵ′ T +h|T,j [ŷT +h|T,j − E(ŷT +h|T,j )],                         (37)

where ŵ′ T +h|T,j is the average of (restricted or unrestricted) OLS coefficients corresponding to different
draws.
   Recall that under a standard linear framework, the SVD possesses a valuable characteristic – the
difference between the final prediction and the historical average prediction is fairly distributed among
the covariates (individual forecasts). Maintaining this property is crucial when combining the SVD
with RSM, as it is not inherently fulfilled by the combination by default.
   The explanation lies in the following observation: ŵ′ T +h|T,j and the final prediction are averaged
across different numbers. That is, β̂xj is divided by the nxj – the number of times a variable has been
selected, meanwhile the final prediction is divided by B, where B is the number of RSM iterations.
   More formally, define inclusion probability and conditional mean weight:

                                 pj := Pr(j ∈ S),          mj := E[ βj | j ∈ S ].

   Additionally, define the weights: zero-bagged weight (including 0 when the forecast is not selected):
                                                                                       N
                                                                                       X
                    w̄jzb := E[1{j ∈ S} wj ] = pj mj ,            ⇒       RSM
                                                                        ŷt+1 =              w̄jzb ŷj,t+1
                                                                                       i=1


                                                          27
and the conditional weight (only when the forecast is selected in a subsample S) which is equal to the
conditional mean:


                                          w̄jnz := E[wj | j ∈ S] = mj .

    Thus, the average Shapley value for a j-th forecast uses the zero-bagged weight, that is:


                                        ϕ¯j = w̄jzb [ŷT +h|T,j − E(ŷT +h|T,j )]                      (38)

    However, the sum of the contributions defined in Equation 38 explains the difference between the
model prediction and its average prediction. To explain this difference in terms of the dependent
variable (ŷT +h − ȳt ), an additional intercept denoted ϕ0 should be added such that:

                                                                    X
                                              ŷT +h − ȳt = ϕ0 +        ϕj ,                          (39)
                                                                     j
                     zb
              P
where ϕ0 =       j w̄j E[ŷT +h|T,j ] − ȳt   is the deviation between the model’s average prediction and
expected model prediction of the dependent variable, ϕj are the average Shapley values as defined
in Equation 38. Notice that adding the constant term ϕ0 does not influence the estimation of ϕj .
Instead, it just ensures that the sum of ϕj explains the difference only in terms of the target variable
yt . Intuitively, the intercept term ϕ0 reconciles two baselines: the model’s average fitted value (implied
by averaged subset-specific combinations) and the unconditional mean of the realized target series.
    This notation also helps to derive the key rule for comparing global w̄jzb and conditional w̄jnz weights
to the equal weighting. That is, if pj = k/N is a uniform probability, then there is a correspondence
between zero-bagged, no-zeros, and mean as follows:

                                        k
                              w̄jzb =     mj      =⇒       w̄jzb > N1 ⇐⇒ mj > k1                       (40)
                                        N

    This means that the zero-bagged weight is higher than the mean weight if the conditional weight
is higher that the reciprocal of the subset dimension k. In other words, given that the variable is in
the subset S, its expected weight should be higher than the mean weight in the subsample for the
global weight to be higher than the mean.


7     Empirical Application

7.1    Data and Methods

We employ the FRED-MD dataset to nowcast GDP growth rates. Real-time vintages of the last
months of each quarter (March, June, September, December) are used to produce a forecast. This
vintage selection ensures the fullest data availability before actually observing the outcome. The
number of time series in the dataset varies over time, usually rounding up to 120. The optimal subset

                                                           28
                                                                                              √
space k ∗ is set as proposed in the previous section, that is k ∗ as the nearest integer to       T . The
validation of the subset choice k ∗ is presented in Appendix I.
      We produce out-of-sample forecasts from Q3 1999 through Q1 2025, yielding 102 quarters for
evaluation4 . As in the Monte Carlo setup, we run separate bivariate OLS regressions —one for each
predictor (aggregated to the quarterly frequency) — to obtain a unique forecast from each series. Thus,
for a given quarter, we have as many forecasts as there are variables in the dataset. Current-quarter
ragged-edge observations from the real time vintages (also aggregated to the quarterly frequency)
are used to generate the out-of-sample nowcast from each predictor. At each vintage, the nowcast
uses the latest available monthly releases within the quarter for each series; missing within-quarter
observations are handled by the same aggregation rule used for all predictors to ensure comparability
across vintages. To produce bivariate forecasts after the COVID-19-crisis (Q2 2020 and Q3 2020)
as well as RSM and all the benchmarks forecasts, those two quarters were eliminated to avoid using
outliers, which may severely affect the estimation. More specifically, for vintages after Q3 2020, we
drop Q2 2020 and Q3 2020 from the estimation sample of every bivariate forecasting regression and
from the RSM weight estimation step, while still evaluating forecasts on the full out-of-sample period
                                                                          √
unless explicitly stated otherwise. For the baseline scenario, we fix k = T rounded to the nearest
integer.
      Other benchmarks for high-dimensional forecast combination are estimated to compare the per-
formance. Following Chen and Maung (2023), we use Random Forest, Lasso, and Ridge.


7.2      Forecast Combination Evaluation

Table 1 reports GDP nowcast combination results comparing RSM with the benchmarks for the full
sample. RSM substantially outperforms the equal weighting, Ridge, and Random Forest in terms of
the RMSFE. Lasso, on the other hand, produces similar results, thus being the closest competitor.
However, the time span used for forecast evaluation includes the COVID-19 crisis, which can influence
the nowcasting performance of all models.

                                              Model          MAFE        RMSFE
                                              Mean               0.54      1.10
                                              RSM             0.45∗∗      0.74∗
                                              Lasso              0.51     0.76∗
                                              Ridge           0.50∗        1.00
                                        Random Forest            0.55      1.24

                                 Table 1: GDP Forecast Evaluation: Full Sample
  4
      Due to missing values in some of the indicators, Q4 2003 is discarded.




                                                            29
                 Table 2 provides the same metrics without the two COVID-19 quarters (Q2 and Q3 2020). Ex-
cluding those quarters noticeably improves the forecast combination performance across the models.
Still, RSM shows the best forecast combination performance (both in terms of MAFE and RMSFE).
However, unlike the case with full data, both ridge and Random Forest appear to be more accurate
than Lasso, the performance of which is the same as the equal weighting. This indicates that Lasso
performed substantially better during the COVID-19 crisis than other competitors (except the RSM).

                                                                 Model        MAFE                   RMSFE
                                                                  Mean            0.42                0.60
                                                                  RSM         0.39∗∗                 0.53∗∗
                                                                  Lasso           0.45                0.60
                                                                 Ridge        0.39∗∗                 0.55∗∗
                                                             Random Forest    0.41∗∗                 0.58∗

                                     Table 2: GDP Forecast Evaluation: Excluding COVID-19


                 Recall, RSM takes an initial set of N forecasts as input and uses them to produce another set of
forecasts of size B, where B is the number of iterations (in our case, B = 1000). Therefore, there
is supposed to be a change in the distributions of forecasts, which helps RSM to predict the target
better than the mean. However, this might happen only when both equal weighting and RSM produce
substantially different results.
                 First, Figure 6 and Figure 7 depict both distributions for Q3 2004. This quarter is selected due to
the similar prediction of the GDP growth rate for both methods5 . Even though the RSM distribution
is closer to the bell-shaped form, both are centered around the true realization without outliers. That
is why taking the mean of both sets produces accurate estimations.

                               Initial forecasts (Q3 2004)                                                      RSM forecasts (Q3 2004)


            35

                                                                                               250
            30


            25                                                                                 200




Frequency                                                                          Frequency
            20
                                                                                               150

            15

                                                                                               100
            10

                                                                                               50
            5


            0                                                                                  0


                  0.2    0.4   0.6         0.8         1.0      1.2   1.4                             0.0     0.5             1.0         1.5   2.0

                                       growth rates                                                                   growth rates




Figure 6: Initial set of GDP forecasts (Q3 2004)                                           Figure 7: RS set of GDP forecasts (Q3 2004)
            5




                                                                             30
                   In crisis periods, RSM delivers significantly stronger out-of-sample performance (Figure 8 and
Figure 9). Whereas many individual forecasts remain clustered near zero and fail to adjust, RSM
adapts by shifting the combined forecast toward a more plausible mean level. Thus, RSM is particularly
valuable when the target temporarily deviates from its typical behavior.

                                    Initial Forecasts (Q2 2020)                                                RSM Forecasts (Q2 2020)

                                                                                             150

              40




              30                                                                             100



Frequency     20                                                                 Frequency

                                                                                             50

              10



              0                                                                              0

                      −20     −15            −10           −5     0                                −20   −15         −10            −5   0

                                            growth rate                                                               growth rate




Figure 8: Initial set of GDP forecasts (Q2 2020)                                        Figure 9: RS set of GDP forecasts (Q2 2020)


7.3                  RSM Weights

RSM allows us to study the weight dynamics over time for any given variable and how it differs from
the equal weighting scheme. Moreover, it is possible to study the global weight w̄jzb and its conditional
counterpart mj as defined per Equation 40. In the main analysis, we stick to the global weight w̄jzb
used to produce the final forecast. In Appendix J, a more detailed discussion of the correspondence
between the global and conditional weights is presented.



            0.09




 Weight     0.06




            0.03




                       1999−09
                       1999−12
                       2000−03
                                               2004−03
                                               2004−06
                                               2004−09
                                               2004−12
                                               2005−03
                                               2005−06
                                               2005−09
                                               2005−12
                                               2006−03
                                               2006−06
                                               2006−09
                                               2006−12
                                               2007−03
                                               2007−06
                       2000−06
                       2000−09                 2007−09
                                               2007−12
                                               2008−03
                                               2008−06
                                               2008−09
                                               2008−12
                                               2009−03
                                               2009−06
                                               2009−09
                                               2009−12
                                               2010−03
                       2000−12
                       2001−03                 2010−06
                                               2010−09
                                               2010−12
                                               2011−03
                                               2011−06
                                               2011−09
                                               2011−12
                                               2012−03
                                               2012−06
                                               2012−09
                                               2012−12
                       2001−06
                       2001−09
                       2001−12
                                               2013−03
                                               2013−06
                                               2013−09
                                               2013−12
                                               2014−03
                                               2014−06
                                               2014−09
                                               2014−12
                                               2015−03
                                               2015−06
                                               2015−09
                                               2015−12
                                               2016−03
                       2002−03
                       2002−06                 2016−06
                                               2016−09
                                               2016−12
                                               2017−03
                                               2017−06
                                               2017−09
                                               2017−12
                                               2018−03
                                               2018−06
                                               2018−09
                                               2018−12
                       2002−09
                       2002−12                 2019−03
                                               2019−06
                                               2019−09
                                               2019−12
                                               2020−03
                                               2020−06
                                               2020−09
                                               2020−12
                                               2021−03
                                               2021−06
                                               2021−09
                       2003−03
                       2003−06
                       2003−09
                                               2021−12
                                               2022−03
                                               2022−06
                                               2022−09
                                               2022−12
                                               2023−03
                                               2023−06
                                               2023−09
                                               2023−12
                                               2024−03
                                               2024−06
                                               2024−09
                                               2024−12
                                               2025−03
                                                                           Vintage




                                                   Figure 10: Industrial Production Weight over Time


                   We choose Industrial Production (FRED-md mnemonics INDPRO) to analyze the time-varying
dynamics. This variable is chosen as one of the most important leading indicators used to now-
cast/forecast GDP growth rates. IP is a standard real-activity indicator that tends to co-move with
GDP and is widely used in short-horizon output tracking exercises. As shown in Figure 10, the solid
line is always above the dotted one, meaning that Industrial Production always has a larger in abso-


                                                                          31
lute value than equal weight in the aggregated prediction. This confirms that forecasts based solely
on IP are more informative and have stronger forecasting predictability than an average one, thus
is supposed to have a higher weight in the optimal combination. Moreover, by implying the equal
weighting, not only does one lose the flexibility, but also it influences the total relative contribution
via the SVD as shown in Equation 37. Underestimating (as in this case) the weight of Industrial
production leads to the corresponding underestimation of its contribution to the GDP growth rate
which may negatively impact public policy decisions.


7.3.1            Negative Weights

In the forecast combination literature, a common assumption is that the weights should be non-
negative and sum up to one in order to preserve the weight interpretability. The optimal weight, as
defined in Equation 2, on the other hand, does not rely on the additional constraint of weights being
non-negative. In other words, the optimal weights obtained via linear combination without additional
assumptions can be negative. Moreover, if a large number of variables is included in the regression
with the non-negativity constraints, it can lead to the case when most of the forecasts have a zero
weight, which can underestimate their actual weight.
        The negative weights can cause ambiguity in terms of interpretability. However, as shown in
Radchenko et al. (2023), negative weights can arise (and it should be expected) in the case when
forecasts to combine are highly correlated because of the multicollinearity. Since we do not impose
a restriction of global weights to be non-negative, some of them in the final combination happened
to be negative. For example, let us take the S&P 500 index (FRED-md mnemonics S P 500), which
is considered an important financial variable to predict the GDP growth rate Koop et al. (2021). In
Figure 11 (upper plot), the global weight w̄zb of the latter is depicted.
                                                                        Contribution




 0.00




−0.02




−0.04


                                                                                  w_bar



 0.10


 0.05


 0.00


−0.05


−0.10



           1999−09   2001−09    2003−09   2005−12   2007−12   2009−12   2011−12           2013−12   2015−12   2017−12   2019−12   2021−12   2023−12

                                                                          Vintage




                               Figure 11: S&P 500: RSM global Weight and its Contribution


        As can be seen from the plot, there are periods at the beginning of the out-of-sample exercise, when

                                                                        32
the RSM weights are indeed negative. It is worth mentioning that it happens quite often that some
of the weights for different forecasts are less than 0 under the RSM forecast aggregation procedure.
Again, according to Radchenko et al. (2023), it is expected to happen, since some of the employed
forecasts in most subsets can be highly collinear, thus forcing the global weight to be negative.
   We propose two alternative ways of interpreting negative weights within the RSM procedure. First,
according to the Equation 36, when the simple OLS is estimated including a constant to capture a
potential bias (if all the forecasts are unbiased, this constant is essentially 0), the obtained estimations
are not interpreted as weights per se. Rather, they depict the OLS coefficients (the marginal change),
and the focus is on the forecast combination performance instead of the interpretability of weights.
   Second, we treat the weights as the input to compute the Shapley value of a given variable. This
is, to the best of our knowledge, is an understudied property of the negative weights. The negative
weights still allow for decomposing the contribution in such a way that the difference between the
actual prediction and the historical average is fully explained. In other words, instead of focusing
on the weight per se, we propose to focus on the Shapley value decomposition, where the (negative)
weight serves as a definer. Because the combination assigns a negative weight to this forecast, its
deviations from its own historical mean move the combined forecast in the opposite direction. A
below-average forecast produces a positive contribution because the model is effectively subtracting
that negative deviation.
   In Figure 11 (lower plot), the corresponding attributions of the S&P 500 to the GDP growth rate
are presented. Despite the negative weights at the start, its contribution was slightly positive, meaning
that the deviation between the prediction and the historical average was negative. However, both the
weight and the discrepancy being very close to 0 (even though both negative) result in the virtual
absence of the contribution.


7.4   Shapley Value Decomposition

Once the linear decomposition values ϕ̄j are obtained for each variable, it is possible to plot them to
observe the relative contributions. We choose the same quarters as in the Section 7.2, that is, Q3 2004
and Q2 2020.
   In Figure 12 the ten highest (in absolute values) relative contributions are depicted for Q3 2004
as well as the sum of all other contributions, denoted ”Other”. This group aggregates the remaining
forecasts’ Shapley values (all contributions outside the top-10 in absolute value) so that the displayed
bars still sum to the total explained deviation. As discussed in Section 7.2, in the given quarter, both
the equal weighting and the RSM forecast combination methods provide similar results (0.89 and 0.94,
respectively), essentially precisely predicting the outcome. Moreover, the actual growth rate of GDP
in Q3 2004 (0.95) and the historical average of the latter (0.83) are very close to each other. Hence,
the difference to be explained by the individual forecast is virtually small and ϕ0 < 0.0007. With the


                                                    33
number of forecasts being high (124), a relative contribution of a given variable is expected to be close
to 0.

     Other                                               IPMANSICS

 IPMANSICS                                                 CE16OV

   CUMFNS                                               HWIURATIO

   IPFINAL                                                 INDPRO

    HOUST                                                 IPFPNSS

    CP3Mx                                               UEMP5TO14

    IPNMAT                                              CMRMTSPLx

  IPFPNSS                                                  UNRATE

      GS5                                                  PAYEMS

UEMP5TO14                                                  SRVPRD

     GS10                                                    Other

                  0.00     0.02         0.04                         −2.5   −2.0   −1.5             −1.0   −0.5   0.0
                         Contribution                                                     Contribution




Figure 12: Shapley Value Decomposition (Q3              Figure 13: Shapley Value Decomposition (Q2
2004)                                                   2020)


     A more illustrative example is the same decomposition for Q2 2020, presented in Figure 13. Recall,
RSM significantly outperforms the mean combiner for a given quarter in terms of forecast precision.
More specifically, RSM predicts the GDP growth rate to be -6.1, whereas the mean combination yields
-1.3, hence severely underestimates the true realization (-7.9). The estimated ϕ0 = 0.032.
     Since the discrepancy between the RSM prediction and its historical average is substantial, the
magnitude of each variable’s Shapley value is higher than in normal times. This decomposition also
allows for interpreting the results descriptively. The highest contributions have labor market variables
alongside production.


7.4.1        RSM and Equal Weight Contributions

Not only does one oftentimes lose the forecasting precision by using the mean, but also the corre-
sponding average Shapley values ϕj can be underestimated, which can negatively impact public policy
decisions. As in Section 7.3, the Industrial production and S&P index are chosen to depict potential
difference while estimating relative contributions using RSM weights and the equal weighting.
     In Figure 14, average Shapley Values for Industrial production obtained by RSM and the equal
weighting are depicted. Since, as discussed before, the individual contribution is usually around 0
almost by construction. Still, the difference between the lines is noticeable. Especially, it is clear in
both the COVID-19 recession and the following rebound (Q2 2020 and Q3 2020, respectively). In
both quarters, Industrial production has a much higher average Shapley Values compare to the mean.




                                                   34
                0.1



                0.0




Contribution
               −0.1



               −0.2



               −0.3




                          1999−09       2001−09      2003−09      2005−12      2007−12     2009−12      2011−12       2013−12    2015−12    2017−12    2019−12   2021−12   2023−12

                                                                                                          Vintage




                                                     Figure 14: Industrial Production Contribution over Time


                      In Figure 15, average Shapley values obtained for S&P index by RSM and the equal weighting are
depicted.



                0.00




Contribution   −0.02




               −0.04




                              1999−09      2001−09      2003−09      2005−12     2007−12     2009−12      2011−12      2013−12    2015−12    2017−12   2019−12   2021−12   2023−12

                                                                                                            Vintage




                                                                    Figure 15: S& P Contribution over Time



8                      Conclusion

This paper studies forecast aggregation in high-dimensional environments using RSM and its con-
nection to the Shapley Value decomposition. The central idea is that instead of estimating a single
large forecast-combination regression (often infeasible or noisy when the number of forecasts is large),
we repeatedly draw small subsets of forecasts, estimate low-dimensional OLS combinations, and then
average the resulting predictions. This strategy retains the information from large forecast pools while
reducing estimation noise, which is a key friction behind the forecast combination puzzle and the weak
empirical performance of many “optimal” weighting schemes.
                      Theoretical results show that there is room for RSM to improve forecast combination performance
compared to the optimal weight and equal-weight frameworks in the finite (small) sample cases.
Unsurprisingly, it is harder to beat the equal weighting because the latter does not imply the estimation
error. Also, the performance of RSM crucially depends on the size of the subsets k. The ways of
selecting k in a general case and in some special cases are discussed. In line with the simulation
                                                                                         √
evidence, a convenient and robust rule of thumb is to choose the subset size close to k ≈ T rounded
to the nearest integer, which tends to be near-optimal across designs and sample sizes.

                                                                                                       35
   The empirical application uses real-time vintages of the FRED-MD data (provided by the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis) to nowcast U.S. GDP growth, constructing a large set of univariate fore-
casts and then combining them. RSM consistently improves on the equal-weight mean and performs
favorably relative to high-dimensional benchmarks such as Lasso, Ridge, and Random Forest. The
gains are particularly pronounced in periods of unusual dynamics (notably the COVID-19 recession),
when many individual predictors react unevenly and the simple mean can be pulled toward systematic
under- or over-reaction.
   Finally, the paper connects forecast combination with interpretability by showing how RSM can
be paired with a Shapley value decomposition. RSM weights allow the model’s prediction to be easily
decomposed into contributions of individual forecasts. This provides an interpretable attribution even
in high dimensions and is crucial for policymakers.




                                                 36
References

Rocio Alvarez, Maximo Camacho, and Gabriel Perez-Quiros. Finite sample performance of small
  versus large scale dynamic factor models. 2012.

John M Bates and Clive WJ Granger. The combination of forecasts. Journal of the operational
  research society, 20(4):451–468, 1969.

Stephen D Bay. Combining nearest neighbor classifiers through multiple feature subsets. In ICML,
  volume 98, pages 37–45. Citeseer, 1998.

Tom Boot and Didier Nibbering. Forecasting using random subspace methods. Journal of Economet-
  rics, 209(2):391–406, 2019.

Tom Boot and Didier Nibbering. Subspace methods. Macroeconomic Forecasting in the Era of Big
  Data: Theory and Practice, pages 267–291, 2020.

Marcus Buckmann, Andreas Joseph, and Helena Robertson. An interpretable machine learning work-
  flow with an application to economic forecasting. Technical report, Bank of England, 2022.

Stephen Burgess, Emilio Fernandez-Corugedo, Charlotta Groth, Richard Harrison, Francesca Monti,
  Konstantinos Theodoridis, Matt Waldron, et al. The Bank of England’s forecasting platform: COM-
  PASS, MAPS, EASE and the suite of models. SSRN, 2013.

Bin Chen and Kenwin Maung. Time-varying forecast combination for high-dimensional data. Journal
  of Econometrics, 237(2):105418, 2023.

Gerda Claeskens, Jan R Magnus, Andrey L Vasnev, and Wendun Wang. The forecast combination
  puzzle: A simple theoretical explanation. International Journal of Forecasting, 32(3):754–762, 2016.

Lilian M De Menezes, Derek W Bunn, and James W Taylor. Review of guidelines for the use of
  combined forecasts. European Journal of Operational Research, 120(1):190–204, 2000.

Viet Hoang Dinh, Didier Nibbering, and Benjamin Wong. Random subspace local projections. Review
  of Economics and Statistics, pages 1–33, 2024.

Petros Drineas, Ravi Kannan, and Michael W Mahoney. Fast monte carlo algorithms for matrices i:
  Approximating matrix multiplication. SIAM Journal on Computing, 36(1):132–157, 2006.

Graham Elliott and Jie Liao. Combining forecasts-on why averaging beats optimal linear weights.
  2025.

Graham Elliott and Jie Liao. Combining forecasts - on why averaging beats optimal linear weights.
  Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 0(ja):1–55, 2026. doi: 10.1080/07350015.2026.2661980.
  URL https://doi.org/10.1080/07350015.2026.2661980.

                                                   37
Graham Elliott, Antonio Gargano, and Allan Timmermann. Complete subset regressions. Journal of
  Econometrics, 177(2):357–373, 2013.

Graham Elliott, Antonio Gargano, and Allan Timmermann. Complete subset regressions with large-
  dimensional sets of predictors. Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control, 54:86–110, 2015.

Domenico Giannone, Michele Lenza, and G Primiceri. Macroeconomic prediction with big data: The
  illusion of sparsity. echnical report, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 97, 2017.

Clive WJ Granger and Ramu Ramanathan. Improved methods of combining forecasts. Journal of
  forecasting, 3(2):197–204, 1984.

Tin Kam Ho. The random subspace method for constructing decision forests. IEEE transactions on
  pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 20(8):832–844, 1998.

Atsushi Inoue and Lutz Kilian. How useful is bagging in forecasting economic time series? a case
  study of us consumer price inflation. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 103(482):
  511–522, 2008.

Dennis Kant, Andreas Pick, and Jasper de Winter. Nowcasting gdp using machine learning methods.
  AStA Advances in Statistical Analysis, 109(1):1–24, 2025.

Gary Koop, Stuart McIntyre, James Mitchell, and Aubrey Poon. Nowcasting ‘true’monthly us gdp
  during the pandemic. National Institute Economic Review, 256:44–70, 2021.

Rachidi Kotchoni, Maxime Leroux, and Dalibor Stevanovic. Macroeconomic forecast accuracy in a
  data-rich environment. Journal of Applied Econometrics, 34(7):1050–1072, 2019.

Kajal Lahiri and Xuguang Sheng. Measuring forecast uncertainty by disagreement: The missing link.
  Journal of Applied Econometrics, 25(4):514–538, 2010.

Tae-Hwy Lee and Ekaterina Seregina. Learning from forecast errors: A new approach to forecast
  combinations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.02077, 2020.

Scott M Lundberg, Gabriel Erion, Hugh Chen, Alex DeGrave, Jordan M Prutkin, Bala Nair, Ronit
  Katz, Jonathan Himmelfarb, Nisha Bansal, and Su-In Lee. From local explanations to global
  understanding with explainable ai for trees. Nature machine intelligence, 2(1):56–67, 2020.

Michael W Mahoney et al. Randomized algorithms for matrices and data. Foundations and Trends®
  in Machine Learning, 3(2):123–224, 2011.

Michael W McCracken and Serena Ng. Fred-md: A monthly database for macroeconomic research.
  Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 34(4):574–589, 2016.


                                                 38
Marcelo C Medeiros, Gabriel FR Vasconcelos, Álvaro Veiga, and Eduardo Zilberman. Forecasting
  inflation in a data-rich environment: the benefits of machine learning methods. Journal of Business
  & Economic Statistics, 39(1):98–119, 2021.

Loukia Meligkotsidou, Ekaterini Panopoulou, Ioannis D Vrontos, and Spyridon D Vrontos. Out-of-
  sample equity premium prediction: A complete subset quantile regression approach. The European
  Journal of Finance, 27(1-2):110–135, 2021.

Andreas Pick and Matthijs Carpay. Multi-step forecasting with large vector autoregressions. In Essays
  in Honor of M. Hashem Pesaran: Prediction and Macro Modeling, pages 73–98. Emerald Publishing
  Limited, 2022.

Peter Radchenko, Andrey L Vasnev, and Wendun Wang. Too similar to combine? on negative weights
  in forecast combination. International Journal of Forecasting, 39(1):18–38, 2023.

Jon D Samuels and Rodrigo M Sekkel. Model confidence sets and forecast combination. International
  Journal of Forecasting, 33(1):48–60, 2017.

Lloyd S Shapley et al. A value for n-person games. 1953.

Martin Slawski. On principal components regression, random projections, and column subsampling.
  2018.

James H Stock and Mark W Watson. Forecasting inflation. Journal of monetary economics, 44(2):
  293–335, 1999.

James H Stock and Mark W Watson. Combination forecasts of output growth in a seven-country data
  set. Journal of forecasting, 23(6):405–430, 2004.

Erik Strumbelj and Igor Kononenko. An efficient explanation of individual classifications using game
  theory. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 11:1–18, 2010.

Robert Tibshirani. Regression shrinkage and selection via the lasso. Journal of the Royal Statistical
  Society Series B: Statistical Methodology, 58(1):267–288, 1996.

Allan Timmermann. Forecast combinations. Handbook of economic forecasting, 1:135–196, 2006.

Xiaoqian Wang, Rob J Hyndman, Feng Li, and Yanfei Kang. Forecast combinations: an over 50-year
  review. International Journal of Forecasting, 39(4):1518–1547, 2023.

Nuttanan Wichitaksorn, Yingyue Kang, and Faqiang Zhang. Random feature selection using random
  subspace logistic regression. Expert Systems with Applications, 217:119535, 2023.




                                                  39
Appendices
A     Finite-bagging bridge

Proof. Let V = vS denote the random weight vector for a single subset draw, and v̄ = E[V ] its
expectation over all possible subsets. For independent draws, the finite-bagged estimator averages
Bbag independent draws, meaning:
                                                                G
                                                          1 X
                                                   v̂ =       Vb .
                                                          G
                                                             b=1

Then, by adding and subtracting v̄ inside the quadratic form, we obtain that for a single realization:


                                   v̂ ′ Σe v̂ = [v̄ + (v̂ − v̄)]′ Σe [v̄ + (v̂ − v̄)]

    After expanding the product on the right hand-side, we observe:

                           v̂ ′ Σe v̂ = v̄ ′ Σe v̄ + 2v̄Σe (v̂ − v̄) + (v̂ − v̄)′ Σe (v̂ − v̄)

    Taking expectation over the independent draws yields:

                                 E[v̂ ′ Σe v̂] = v̄ ′ Σe v̄ + E[(v̂ − v̄)′ Σe (v̂ − v̄)].

    Since the v̄ ′ Σe v̄ = Qbag,∞
                            k     is a constant, and the expectation of the cross term equals to zero since
E(v̂ − v̄) = 0 because of Vb being i.i.d draws from the same subset distribution. Therefore:


                                E[v̂ ′ Σe v̂] = Qbag,∞
                                                 k     + E[(v̂ − v̄)′ Σe (v̂ − v̄)]                   (41)

    We can write the centered average explicitly as follows:

                                                               G
                                                       1 X
                                             v̂ − v̄ =    (Vg − v̄)
                                                       G
                                                            g=1

    Substitute into the quadratic form and expand:
                                                           G        G
                                                      1 XX
                          (v̂ − v̄)′ Σe (v̂ − v̄) =        (Vg − v̄)′ Σe (Vg′ − v̄)
                                                      G2 ′g=1 g =1

    For the diagonal terms g = g ′ due to Vg being identically distributed to V, by taking expectation
we get:


                           E[(Vg − v̄)′ Σe,m (Vg − v̄)] = E[(V − v̄)′ Σe,m (V − v̄)]

    whereas for the non-diagonal terms g ̸= g ′ since Vg and Vg′ are independent, for each pair of indices
(i, j) we obtain that their expectation is zero:



                                                           40
                      E(Vg − v̄)′ Σe,m (Vg′ − v̄) = E(Vg,i − v̄i )E(Vg,j − v̄j ) = 0         ∀g ̸= g ′

    Thus:

                                             1                                1
            E[(v̂ − v̄)′ Σe,m (v̂ − v̄)] =     2
                                                 GE[(V − v̄)′ Σe,m (V − v̄)] = E[(V − v̄)′ Σe,m (V − v̄)]
                                             G                                G

    Finally, expand and take expectation of the (V − v̄)′ Σe,m (V − v̄):

                                                                                              bag,∞
             E[(V − v̄)′ Σe,m (V − v̄)] = E(V ′ Σe,m V ) − 2v̄Σe,m E[V ] + v̄ ′ Σe v̄ = Qsub
                                                                                         k − Qk


and by plugging this expression back to Equation 41, we obtain:

                                                        1                           
                                      Qbag,G
                                       k     = Qbag,∞
                                                k     +                Qsub  bag,∞
                                                                        k − Qk           .
                                                        G




B     Average subset under common loading heteroskedastic forecasts-
      errors

Proof. Recall Σe,S = qιk ι′k + DS . To invert it, we can use the Sherman-Morrison formula, which yields
a following closed form:
                                                     −1        qDS−1 ιk ι′k DS−1
                                             Σ−1
                                              e,S = DS −                         .                              (42)
                                                               1 + qι′k DS−1 ιk
                                  P                       −2
Previously we define AS =            i∈S τi , where τi = σi .          Notice that AS can equivalently be written in
terms of DS−1 as follows:

                                                                        X
                                                AS = ι′k DS−1 ιk =            τi .
                                                                        i∈S
    Then by using Equation 42, we can write:


                                                               qA2S      AS
                                       ι′k Σ−1
                                            e,S ιk = AS −            =         .                                (43)
                                                             1 + qAS   1 + qAS
    Finally, to find the subset risk take the reciprocal:

                                                                                      1
                                  Q(S) = wS′ Σe,S wS = (ι′k Σ−1
                                                             e,S ιk )
                                                                      −1
                                                                         =q+            .                       (44)
                                                                                     AS

    To find optimal subset weights, first notice that:

                                                           DS−1 ιk      τS
                                             Σ−1
                                              e,S ιk =             =         ,                                  (45)
                                                          1 + qAS    1 + qAS

    where τS is the k × 1 vector of precisions of the forecasts in the subset S. By 45 into Equation 8,
we obtain:
                                                Σ−1
                                                 e,S ιk      τS /(1 + qAS )   τS
                                      wS =          −1     =                =    .
                                               ι′k Σe,S ιk   AS /(1 + qAS )   AS

                                                              41
      Alternatively,


                                                               τi
                                                   wi,S =
                                                               AS



      Therefore                                                            
                                                                    1
                                         Qsub
                                          k = q +S             P                .                    (46)
                                                                i∈S τi

Let
                                          m                             m
                                       1 X                      1 X
                                τ̄ =       τi ,         vτ =        (τi − τ̄ )2 .                    (47)
                                       m                        m
                                         i=1                            i=1

Under simple random sampling without replacement,

                                                                    k(m − k)
                                  [AS ] = kτ̄ ,       (AS ) =                vτ .                    (48)
                                                                     m−1

A second-order Taylor expansion of g(x) = 1/x around kτ̄ gives

                                                      1     m − k vτ
                                       Qsub
                                        k ≈q+            + 2             .                           (49)
                                                     kτ̄  k (m − 1) τ̄ 3

The leading form is
                                                  B                                    1
                                 Qsub
                                  k =q+             + O(k −2 ),                 B=        .          (50)
                                                  k                                    τ̄


C       Average Subset RSM

Lemma 1 (Taylor expansion of the average-subset risk under common loading). Let S be a subset
of size k drawn uniformly without replacement from {1, . . . , m}, and let the common-loading structure
                                                     2 ) and precisions τ = σ −2 > 0. Assume, there exists
Σe = q ιm ι′m + D hold, with D = diag(σ12 , . . . , σm                   i   i

constants 0 < c < C < ∞ such that c < τi < C           ∀i. Write
                                                       m
                                                    1 X
                                           vτ =         (τi − τ̄ )2 .
                                                    m
                                                       i=1

Then the average-subset population risk Qsub
                                         k = ES [Q(S)] has the following second-order expansion:

                                               1     m − k vτ
                              Qsub                                + O k −3 ,
                                                                          
                               k =q+              + 2           3
                                                                                                     (51)
                                              kτ̄  k (m − 1) τ̄

and, in leading order in k,
                                                  B                                      1
                                Qsub                + O k −2 ,
                                                            
                                 k =q+                                          B :=        .        (52)
                                                  k                                      τ̄
Proof. By Proposition 4, each draw satisfies Q(S) = q + A1S . Taking the expectation over the uniform
draw of S yields:                                                                 
                                                                                 1
                                   Qsub
                                    k = ES [Q(S)] = q + ES                           .               (53)
                                                                                AS



                                                        42
                                                                                                                 Pm
     Introduce the inclusion indicator Ii = 1{i ∈ S}, such that AS =                                                i=1 Ii τi .   Under uniform
sampling without replacement at random, the first- and second-order inclusion probabilities are as
follows:
                                                                                     m−2
                                                                                          
                                      k                                              k−2            k(k − 1)
                            P(i ∈ S) = ,                       P(i, j ∈ S) =          m
                                                                                               =            ,     i ̸= j.
                                      m                                               k
                                                                                                    m(m − 1)
Hence:                                                                                          
                                                              k                          k     k
                                                 E[Ii ] =       ,           Var(Ii ) =      1−     ,
                                                              m                          m     m
and, for i ̸= j,
                                                                k(k − 1)  k2    k(m − k)
                                         Cov(Ii , Ij ) =                 − 2 =− 2        .
                                                                m(m − 1) m     m (m − 1)
By linearity, the mean of AS is
                                                                    m                       m
                                                                    X                 k X
                                                  E[AS ] =                τi E[Ii ] =     τi = kτ̄ .                                       (54)
                                                                                      m
                                                                    i=1                   i=1

For the variance,
                           m                                                                           m
                           X                          X                             k(m − k) X 2   k(m − k) X
         Var(AS ) =              τi2 Var(Ii ) +               τi τj Cov(Ii , Ij ) =           τi −            τi τj .
                                                                                      m2           m2 (m − 1)
                           i=1                         i̸=j                                            i=1                        i̸=j
        P                   P           2       P   2    2
                                                                          P    2
Using       i̸=j τi τj =         i τi        −    i τi = Am −               i τi with Am = mτ̄ ,

                     k(m − k) h            P 2      2 +
                                                          P 2i        k(m−k)
                                                                              h P              i
                                                                                        2 − A2 .
             Var(AS ) =         (m  −   1)   τ
                                            i i − A m        τ
                                                            i i   =  m2 (m−1)
                                                                               m      τ
                                                                                     i i     m
                    m2 (m − 1)
Since m i τi2 − A2m = m i τi2 − m2 τ̄ 2 = m i (τi − τ̄ )2 = m2 vτ , this simplifies to the hypergeometric
       P                P                   P

variance:
                                                                               k(m − k)
                                                              Var(AS ) =                vτ .                                               (55)
                                                                                m−1
     Write µ = E[AS ] = kτ̄ and ϵS = AS − µ, so E[ϵS ] = 0 and E[ϵ2S ] = Var(AS ). Since AS ≥ kτmin ,
Taylor’s theorem to third order gives the following expansion:
                                     1  1 ϵS  ϵ2   ϵ3                                                       |ϵS |4
                                       = − 2 + S3 − S4 + ρS ,                                   |ρS | ≤             .
                                    AS  µ µ   µ    µ                                                      (kτmin )5
Under the uniform boundedness condition for the precision profile and simple random sampling without
replacement,
                                                      E[ϵ3S ] = O(k),               E[ϵ4S ] = O(k 2 ).

Hence
                                                     E[ϵ3S ]
                                                 −           = O(k −3 ),             E[ρS ] = O(k −3 ),
                                                      µ4
so                                                             
                                                            1             1 V ar(AS )
                                                  ES                =       +         + O(k −3 ).                                          (56)
                                                           AS             µ    µ3
     Substituting µ = kτ̄ and (55) into (56),
                  
                 1      1      1       k(m − k)           −3
                                                                 1       m − k vτ            −3
                                                                                                 
           ES        =     +         ·          v τ + O k      =     +                  + O k      .
                AS     kτ̄   (kτ̄ )3    m−1                      kτ̄   k 2 (m − 1) τ̄ 3
Combining with (53) yields the second-order expansion (51). Since the correction term is O(k −2 ),
writing B = 1/τ̄ gives the leading form (52)

                                                                               43
D     Average Subset RSM – Minimization Problem
                                                         −1
Applying the finite-sample inflation factor I(T, k) = TT −k , which accounts for estimating k combination
weights from T observations, the total average-subset loss is

                                            Lsub  2     sub
                                                            
                                             k = σϵ + Q k     I(T, k).

Substituting the leading-order expansion Qsub
                                          k   = q + Bk + O(k −2 ) of Lemma 1, with B = 1/τ̄ , and
writing A0 := σϵ2 + q for the irreducible loss floor, gives
                                                           BT − 1
                                             Lsub
                                              k   ≈   A 0 +         .                               (57)
                                                            k T −k

The optimal subset size solves the (continuous-relaxation) program

                                       ∗
                                                                      BT − 1
                                      ksub = arg min            A0 +           .                    (58)
                                                    1≤k≤m              k T −k

Proposition 9 (Square-root rule for the average-subset estimator). Under the common-loading struc-
ture, the minimizer of (57) over k ∈ (0, T ) is the positive root of

                                             A0 k 2 + 2B k − B T = 0,                               (59)

namely                                  √
                                                                                         √
                                                                  r           r
                         ∗       −B +       B 2 + A0 B T               BT            T
                        ksub =                           ∼                =             ∝ T.        (60)
                                            A0                         A0         τ̄ A0
The practical choice is k ∗ = min m, max{1, round(ksub
                                                   ∗ )} .
                                 


Proof. Differentiate (57) with respect to k. With f (k) = A0 + B/k and h(k) = T − k, so that
Lsub
 k = (T − 1) f /h, the quotient rule gives

                                                                          B                B
             dLsub                f ′ (k) h(k) − f (k) h′ (k)            − 2 (T − k) + A0 +
               k
                      = (T − 1)                                 = (T − 1) k                 k .
                 dk                         h(k)2                               (T − k)2

Setting the numerator to zero and multiplying by k 2 ,

                      −B(T − k) + A0 k 2 + Bk = 0           ⇐⇒         A0 k 2 + 2Bk − BT = 0,

which is (59). The quadratic has one sign change in its coefficients (A0 , B, T > 0), hence a unique
positive root,                              √                               √
                          ∗     −2B +           4B 2 + 4A0 BT   −B +            B 2 + A0 BT
                         ksub =                               =                             .
                                                2A0                             A0
Because Lsub
         k → ∞ both as k ↓ 0 (through the B/k term) and as k ↑ T (through I(T, k)), this interior

stationary point is the global minimizer on (0, T ). Finally, for large T the constant and linear terms
                                       ∗ =
                                                                                 √
                                            BT /A0 1 + O(T −1/2 ) , giving the T scaling in (60).
                                           p                        
are negligible relative to A0 BT , so ksub




                                                          44
E     RSM bagged risk representation

Proposition 10 (RSM bagged risk representation). In the common-loading model,

                                      Qbag,∞
                                       k     = Qopt + Rkbag ,

where
                                             m
                                               (v̄i,k − wopt )2
                                   Rkbag =
                                             X
                                                                         i
                                                                                  ≥ 0.
                                                                   τi
                                                i=1

or alternatively
                                             1 X
                                  Rkbag =        τi (gi (k) − 1/τ̄ )2
                                             m2
                                                          i

where                                                                  
                                                                   1
                                     gi (k) = k ES                   i∈S .
                                                                  AS
Proof. Under the common-loading structure,

                            Σe = qιm ι′m + D,                  D = diag(σ12 , . . . , σm
                                                                                       2
                                                                                         ),

where τi = σi−2 . Since both the oracle weights wopt and the infinite-bagged weights v̄k sum to one,
the common component contributes the same amount q to both risks. Therefore,
                                       m   2                                        m
                                         v̄i,k                                        (wopt )2
                         Qbag,∞
                                       X                                            X
                          k     =q+                   ,            Qopt = q +             i
                                                                                                 .
                                                τi                                        τi
                                       i=1                                          i=1

    Let
                                             δi = v̄i,k − wiopt .

Because both weight vectors sum to one,
                                                  m
                                                  X
                                                              δi = 0.
                                                  i=1

Moreover, under common loading the oracle weights are

                                                                   τi
                                                 wiopt =              ,
                                                                   Am




Hence
                                                 wiopt    1
                                                       =    .
                                                  τi     Am
    Now expand the idiosyncratic component of the infinite-bagged risk around the oracle weights:
                                    m   2                 m
                                    X v̄i,k               X (wopt + δi )2
                                                                     i
                                                 =                                 .
                                           τi                                τi
                                     i=1                  i=1




                                                              45
This gives
                            m   2            m                             m                     m
                            X v̄i,k          X (wopt )2   i
                                                                           X wopt δi
                                                                                   i
                                                                                                 X δ2      i
                                         =                          +2                       +                 .
                                   τi                     τi                        τi                    τi
                             i=1              i=1                          i=1                   i=1

The cross term is zero because
                                             m                               m
                                             X wopt δi
                                                     i             2 X
                                         2                      =      δi = 0.
                                                      τi          Am
                                             i=1                            i=1

Therefore,
                                                                     m
                                                                       (v̄i,k − wopt )2
                                     Qbag,∞
                                                                     X
                                      k     = Qopt +                                     i
                                                                                                  .
                                                                                    τi
                                                                     i=1

This proves
                                                                                 m
                                                                                   (v̄i,k − wopt )2
                       Qbag,∞ = Qopt + Rkbag ,                      Rkbag =
                                                                                 X
                                                                                                      i
                        k                                                                                          ≥ 0.
                                                                                                 τi
                                                                                 i=1

   Let us derive the alternative representation. Recall, for a subset S, the embedded subset-optimal
weight assigned to forecaster i is
                                                                              τi
                                                   vS,i = 1{i ∈ S}               ,
                                                                              AS
Hence the infinite-bagged weight is
                                                                                             
                                                                                        1
                             v̄i,k = ES [vS,i ] = P (i ∈ S)τi ES                          |i∈S .
                                                                                       AS

Since subsets are drawn uniformly with fixed size k,

                                                                            k
                                                     P (i ∈ S) =              .
                                                                            m

Using the definition                                                          
                                                                         1
                                             gi (k) = kES                  |i∈S ,
                                                                        AS
we obtain
                                                                    τi
                                                      v̄i,k =          gi (k).
                                                                    m
On the other hand,
                                                                τi   τi
                                                    wiopt =        =     .
                                                                Am   mτ̄
Therefore,                                                                        
                                                        τi                      1
                                        v̄i,k − wiopt =                gi (k) −      .
                                                                    m           τ̄
Substituting this expression into the previous formula for Rkbag gives
                                                   m
                                                                   1 2
                                                                    
                                                     1 τi
                                     Rkbag =
                                                   X
                                                          gi (k) −       .
                                                     τi m          τ̄
                                                    i=1

Thus,
                                                        m
                                                                       1 2
                                                                         
                                                     1 X
                                        Rkbag =           τi  gi (k) −      .
                                                     m2                τ̄
                                                              i=1




                                                                    46
F       Exact Rkbag bounds

Proposition 11 (Exact bracket for infinite-bagged excess risk). For every 1 ≤ k ≤ m,
                                 (kES [1/AS ] − 1/τ̄ )2                         1
                                   Pm 2                 ≤ Rkbag ≤ ES [1/AS ] −    .
                                     i=1 σi − m/τ̄                             Am
Proof. The upper bound follows from Jensen’s inequality as defined in Equation 15. Subtracting Qopt
and using
                                                                                                1
                                   Qsub
                                    k = q + ES [1/AS ],                         Qopt = q +        ,
                                                                                               Am
gives
                                                                                   1
                                                  Rkbag ≤ ES [1/AS ] −               .
                                                                                  Am
      For the lower bound, recall the score representation
                                                  m
                                                                1 2
                                                                  
                                              1 X
                                     Rkbag = 2      τi gi (k) −      .
                                             m                  τ̄
                                                            i=1

Define
                                                                      1
                                                     hi (k) = gi (k) − .
                                                                      τ̄
The score identities imply
                                 m
                                 X                              m
                                                                X
                                        τi gi (k) = m,                 gi (k) = kmES [1/AS ].
                                  i=1                           i=1

Therefore,
                             m                    m                         m
                             X                    X                    1X          Am
                                   τi hi (k) =          τi gi (k) −       τi = m −     = 0,
                                                                       τ̄           τ̄
                             i=1                  i=1                    i=1
because Am = mτ̄ . Also,
                           m                                                    
                           X                             m                    1
                                 hi (k) = kmES [1/AS ] −    = m kES [1/AS ] −      .
                                                         τ̄                   τ̄
                           i=1

Let                                                                  
                                                                   1
                                              dk = m kES [1/AS ] −      .
                                                                   τ̄
We now minimize
                                                             m
                                                             X
                                                                   τi h2i
                                                             i=1
over all vectors h = (h1 , . . . , hm ) satisfying
                                             X                          X
                                                   τi hi = 0,                    hi = dk .
                                              i                             i

Since the actual vector hi (k) satisfies these restrictions, its weighted norm cannot be smaller than this
constrained minimum.
      To compute the minimum, use the Lagrangian
                                              m                   m                      m
                                                                                                         !
                                              X                   X                      X
                            L(h, λ, µ) =            τi h2i + λ          τi hi + µ              hi − dk       .
                                              i=1                 i=1                    i=1


                                                                  47
The first-order condition is
                                                    2τi hi + λτi + µ = 0,

so
                                                                           b
                                                        hi = a +
                                                                           τi
                                      P
for constants a, b. The restriction       i τi hi = 0 gives

                                                                                             bm   b
                               aAm + bm = 0,                  so            a=−                 =− .
                                                                                             Am   τ̄

Hence                                                                              
                                                                  1   1
                                                     hi = b         −                   .
                                                                  τi τ̄
        P
Using    i hi = dk ,
                                                      m
                                                                        !
                                                      X 1        m
                                                b              −                = dk .
                                                            τi   τ̄
                                                      i=1

Thus
                                                                dk
                                                    b= P                  .
                                                            i 1/τi − m/τ̄

The minimum weighted norm is therefore
                                                                                            2
                                      X                       X                 1   1
                                            τi h2i = b2            τi             −                .
                                                                                τi τ̄
                                      i                       i

The last sum simplifies to                                   2
                                      X              1   1                 X1                    m
                                            τi         −               =                     −      .
                                                     τi τ̄                              τi       τ̄
                                      i                                         i

Therefore,
                                          X                           d2k
                                                    τi h2i ≥ P                  .
                                            i                     i 1/τi − m/τ̄

Since 1/τi = σi2 and
                                                            1 X
                                            Rkbag =             τi hi (k)2 ,
                                                            m2
                                                                   i

we obtain
                                                       (kES [1/AS ] − 1/τ̄ )2
                                      Rkbag ≥             P 2                 .
                                                             i σi − m/τ̄




                                                              48
G       Rates

Assumption 5 (Marginal regularity). Let

                                                                      1  1
                                ∆Rk = Rkbag − Rk+1
                                               bag
                                                   ,           zk =     − .
                                                                      k m

For 1 ≪ k ≪ m, suppose there exist constants 0 < dL ≤ dU < ∞, independent of T and k, such that

                               dL zk2 − zk+1
                                         2
                                             
                                               ≤ ∆Rk ≤ dU (zk − zk+1 ) .

Equivalently, for k ≪ m,
                                           ∆Rk ≍ [k −3 , k −2 ],

in the sense that it is bounded below by a constant multiple of k −3 and above by a constant multiple
of k −2 .

Proposition 12 (Rate window for the optimal subset size). Let

                                     bag T − 1
                                       
                           Lbag
                            k = A + Rk         ,             A = σϵ2 + Qopt > 0.
                                          T −k

Let
                                          kT∗ ∈ arg min Lbag
                                                         k .
                                                     1≤k≤m

Suppose Assumption 5 holds, Rkbag is uniformly bounded, and the pool size m is large enough that the
relevant range satisfies T 1/2 ≪ m. Then

                               kT∗ = Ω(T 1/3 )      and      kT∗ = O(T 1/2 ).

Thus the optimal subset size lies between the cube-root and square-root rates:

                                           T 1/3 ≲ kT∗ ≲ T 1/2 .

If m is fixed or grows more slowly than T 1/2 , the upper rate is truncated by the constraint k ≤ m.

Proof. The loss decreases from k to k + 1 if and only if

                                                 Lbag    bag
                                                  k+1 < Lk .


Using
                                                      bag T − 1
                                                        
                                       Lbag
                                        k   =   A + R k         ,
                                                           T −k
and cancelling the positive factor T − 1, this inequality is equivalent to
                                             bag
                                        A + Rk+1   A + Rkbag
                                                 <           .
                                        T −k−1      T −k

Cross-multiplying gives
                                          bag
                             (T − k)(A + Rk+1 ) < (T − k − 1)(A + Rkbag ).

                                                     49
Rearranging,
                                    (T − k)(Rkbag − Rk+1
                                                     bag
                                                         ) > A + Rkbag .

Therefore the loss is decreasing at k if and only if

                                         (T − k)∆Rk > A + Rkbag .

   We first prove the lower rate bound. By Assumption 5, for 1 ≪ k ≪ m,

                                               ∆Rk ≥ cL k −3

for some cL > 0. Since Rkbag is uniformly bounded, there exists R̄ < ∞ such that

                                            A + Rkbag ≤ A + R̄.

Choose c > 0 small enough that, for all k ≤ cT 1/3 ,

                                          (T − k)cL k −3 > A + R̄.

Then, for all such k, the loss is still decreasing:

                                         (T − k)∆Rk > A + Rkbag .

Hence the minimizer cannot occur below a constant multiple of T 1/3 . Therefore,

                                               kT∗ = Ω(T 1/3 ).

   We now prove the upper rate bound. By Assumption 5, for 1 ≪ k ≪ m,

                                               ∆Rk ≤ cU k −2

for some cU < ∞. Since A > 0,
                                              A + Rkbag ≥ A.

Choose C < ∞ large enough that, for all k ≥ CT 1/2 ,

                                            (T − k)cU k −2 < A.

Then
                             (T − k)∆Rk ≤ (T − k)cU k −2 < A ≤ A + Rkbag .

Thus the loss is no longer decreasing beyond a constant multiple of T 1/2 . Hence

                                              kT∗ = O(T 1/2 ),

provided the pool-size constraint does not bind. If m is smaller than this rate, then the upper bound
is truncated at m, since k ≤ m by construction.
   Combining the two bounds gives
                                            T 1/3 ≲ kT∗ ≲ T 1/2 .




                                                      50
H     Additional Discussion of Monte Carlo Simulations Results

Here, all the plots for both relative RMSFE as well as QRSM (k) across the scenarios are presented.




              1.50




                                                                                                                    R2


     rRMSFE
                                                                                                                         0.1

              1.25                                                                                                       0.3
                                                                                                                         0.5




                                       0.99
              1.00
                                                        0.94
                                                     0.99
                                                     0.94             0.89

                                                     0.90

                     0                                10                     20                      30   40   50
                                                                                  subset dimension




                         Figure 16: Relative forecasting performance (T = 100, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)


              1.5




              1.4




              1.3

                                                                                                                    R2


     rRMSFE
                                                                                                                         0.1
              1.2                                                                                                        0.3
                                                                                                                         0.5


              1.1




                                0.99
              1.0                                    0.97
                                                     1.00      0.95

                                                     0.96

                     0                               10                      20                      30   40   50
                                                                                  subset dimension




                         Figure 17: Relative forecasting performance (T = 100, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)




              1.4




                                                                                                                    R2


     rRMSFE
              1.2                                                                                                        0.1
                                                                                                                         0.3
                                                                                                                         0.5




                             0.99
              1.0
                                                     1.00
                                              0.94

                                                     0.94
                                                        0.88

                                                     0.88

                     0                               10                      20                      30   40   50
                                                                                  subset dimension




                     Figure 18: Relative forecasting performance (T = 100, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)


                                                                                           51
         1.025




         1.000

                                                   0.99

                                                                   0.99

         0.975                                                                                                     R2


rRMSFE
                                                                                                                        0.1
                                                                           0.96                                         0.3

                                                                   0.96                                                 0.5
         0.950




         0.925



                                                                   0.91                           0.91


                 0                  10                       20                              30          40   50
                                                                          subset dimension




                 Figure 19: Relative forecasting performance (T = 500, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)




         1.01




                                                                                                                   R2


rRMSFE
                                         0.99
                                                                                                                        0.1
                                                                   1.00
         0.99                                                                                                           0.3
                                                                                                                        0.5
                                                            0.98

                                                                   0.98


         0.97


                                                                                     0.96
                                                                   0.96

                 0                  10                      20                               30          40   50
                                                                          subset dimension




                 Figure 20: Relative forecasting performance (T = 500, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)




         1.00
                             0.98
                                                                   0.99




                                                                                                                   R2


rRMSFE
         0.95
                                                                                                                        0.1
                                            0.94
                                                                   0.94                                                 0.3
                                                                                                                        0.5




         0.90




                                                     0.87

                                                                   0.87

                 0                  10                      20                               30          40   50
                                                                          subset dimension




                Figure 21: Relative forecasting performance (T = 500, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)




                                                                                   52
H.1          QRSM (k) for Different Scenarios


             1.4




             1.2




                                                                                       R2
             1.0
                                                                                            0.1
      Q_rs                                                                                  0.3
                                                                                            0.5
             0.8




             0.6




             0.4
                    0      10            20                        30   40        50
                                              subspace dimension




                          Figure 22: QRSM (T = 100, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)



             1.2




             1.0


                                                                                       R2
                                                                                            0.1
      Q_rs                                                                                  0.3
             0.8
                                                                                            0.5




             0.6




                    0      10            20                        30   40        50
                                              subspace dimension




                          Figure 23: QRSM (T = 100, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)




             1.25




                                                                                       R2
             1.00
                                                                                            0.1
      Q_rs                                                                                  0.3
                                                                                            0.5


             0.75




             0.50



                    0      10            20                        30   40        50
                                              subspace dimension




                         Figure 24: QRSM (T = 100, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)



                                                       53
       1.2




       1.0

                                                                               R2
                                                                                    0.1
Q_rs                                                                                0.3
       0.8
                                                                                    0.5




       0.6




             0    10             20                        30   40        50
                                      subspace dimension




                 Figure 25: QRSM (T = 100, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)




       1.4




                                                                               R2
                                                                                    0.1
Q_rs   1.2                                                                          0.3
                                                                                    0.5




       1.0




             0    10             20                        30   40        50
                                      subspace dimension




                 Figure 26: QRSM (T = 500, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.3, ϕη = 0.7)


       1.3




       1.2




                                                                               R2
                                                                                    0.1
Q_rs
       1.1
                                                                                    0.3
                                                                                    0.5




       1.0




       0.9

             0    10             20                        30   40        50
                                      subspace dimension




                 Figure 27: QRSM (T = 500, ρ = 0, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)




                                               54
       1.3




       1.2



                                                                               R2
                                                                                    0.1
Q_rs   1.1                                                                          0.3
                                                                                    0.5




       1.0




       0.9

             0    10             20                        30   40        50
                                      subspace dimension




                 Figure 28: QRSM (T = 500, ρ = 0.8, ϕf = 0.7, ϕη = 0.3)




                                               55
I                 Robustness Checks

I.0.1                RMSFE for Different Subset Dimensions k

In Figures 29 and 30, the RMSFE metrics for each subset k ∈ [2, 55] are depicted with or without the
COVID-19 quarters. Similar to Monte Carlo evidence, both curves have a U-shape, further illustrating
that the optimal k ∗ lies somewhere in between. The exception is for k = 37, where a sudden jump
is observed, which can be treated as an outlier. In our baseline scenario, we choose k ∗ as the nearest
              √
integer to the T , which corresponds to k ∗ = 9, 10, 11. Again, the imposed rule-of-thumb to select k ∗
is in line with the empirical findings in Boot and Nibbering (2019), that k ∗ is somewhat stable over
time.

                                                                                 0.70



       1.0




                                                                                 0.65




       0.9




RMSE                                                                      RMSE   0.60




       0.8



                                                                                 0.55




       0.7

                                                                                 0.50


             0           10      20            30        40   50                        0        10    20            30        40   50
                                      subset dimension                                                      subset dimension




                       Figure 29: RMSFE full data                                           Figure 30: RMSFE without COVID-19


                 As can be seen in Table 1 and Table 2, the rule-of-thumb rule produces the RMSFE of 0.74 for
the full sample and 0.53 for the COVID-19 restricted sample6 . The corresponding RMSE minima are
0.68 for k = 18 and 0.5 for ∀k ∈ [14, 26], respectively. In both cases, the optimal subset, which is
characterized by the lower RMSFE, is higher that the ad-hoc k ∗ selection. Even though, the proposed
k ∗ choice during the COVID-19 pandemic is able to produce more or less accurate results compared
to the mean, the bigger subset dimension can improve the forecasting performance even further.
                                                                                          √
    These findings show that the grid search over all possible k, implemented around k = T , can
improve forecasting performance, although sometimes only marginally (if COVID-19 is excluded).




             6
                 Recall, that RSM randomly selects variables. When implementing this exercise, a different seed is used, yielding
0.73 and 0.51, which are even closer to the corresponding minimum values


                                                                     56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Weight                                                                                                      Weight                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00   0.02       0.04   0.06   0.08                                                                                0.0            0.5   1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               text):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1999−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1999−09                                                                                                             1999−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1999−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2000−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2000−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2000−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2000−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2000−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2000−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2000−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2000−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2001−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2001−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2001−06                                                                                                             2001−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2001−09                                                                                                             2001−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2001−12                                                                                                             2001−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2002−03                                                                                                             2002−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2002−06                                                                                                             2002−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2002−09                                                                                                             2002−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2002−12                                                                                                             2002−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2003−03                                                                                                             2003−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2003−06                                                                                                             2003−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2003−09                                                                                                             2003−09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2004−03                                                                                                             2004−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2004−06                                                                                                             2004−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2004−09                                                                                                             2004−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2004−12                                                                                                             2004−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2005−03                                                                                                             2005−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2005−06                                                                                                             2005−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2005−09                                                                                                             2005−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2005−12                                                                                                             2005−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2006−03                                                                                                             2006−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2006−06                                                                                                             2006−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        w̄jzb =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2006−09                                                                                                             2006−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2006−12                                                                                                             2006−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2007−03                                                                                                             2007−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2007−06                                                                                                             2007−06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2007−09                                                                                                             2007−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2007−12                                                                                                             2007−12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     mj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2008−03                                                                                                             2008−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2008−06                                                                                                             2008−06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2008−09                                                                                                             2008−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            weight compared to the equal weighting.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2008−12                                                                                                             2008−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2009−03                                                                                                             2009−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2009−06                                                                                                             2009−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2009−09                                                                                                             2009−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2009−12                                                                                                             2009−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2010−03                                                                                                             2010−03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       =⇒
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2010−06                                                                                                             2010−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2010−09                                                                                                             2010−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2010−12                                                                                                             2010−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2011−03                                                                                                             2011−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2011−06                                                                                                             2011−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2011−09                                                                                                             2011−09
57                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011−12                                                                                                             2011−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2012−03                                                                                                             2012−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Global and Conditional Weights


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2012−06                                                                                                             2012−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to 0.1, since k ∈ [9, 11] and N ≈ 120 for each vintage.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vintage   2012−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vintage   2012−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2012−12                                                                                                             2012−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2013−03                                                                                                             2013−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2013−06                                                                                                             2013−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2013−09                                                                                                             2013−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2013−12                                                                                                             2013−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2014−03                                                                                                             2014−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2014−06                                                                                                             2014−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2014−09                                                                                                             2014−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2014−12                                                                                                             2014−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2015−03                                                                                                             2015−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2015−06                                                                                                             2015−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2015−09                                                                                                             2015−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2015−12                                                                                                             2015−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2016−03                                                                                                             2016−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2016−06                                                                                                             2016−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2016−09                                                                                                             2016−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2016−12                                                                                                             2016−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2017−03                                                                                                             2017−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2017−06                                                                                                             2017−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2017−09                                                                                                             2017−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2017−12                                                                                                             2017−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       w̄jzb > N1 ⇐⇒ mj > k1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2018−03                                                                                                             2018−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2018−06                                                                                                             2018−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2018−09                                                                                                             2018−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2018−12                                                                                                             2018−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2019−03                                                                                                             2019−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2019−06                                                                                                             2019−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2019−09                                                                                                             2019−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2019−12                                                                                                             2019−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2020−03                                                                                                             2020−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2020−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Figure 31: USTRADE: Global Weight against Equal Weight




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2020−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2020−09                                                                                                             2020−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2020−12                                                                                                             2020−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2021−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In Figure 31 and Figure 32, the time-varying USTRADE weights are presented.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2021−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2021−06                                                                                                             2021−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2021−09                                                                                                             2021−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2021−12                                                                                                             2021−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2022−03                                                                                                             2022−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2022−06                                                                                                             2022−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Figure 32: USTRADE: Conditional Weight against Subspace Equal Weight




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2022−09                                                                                                             2022−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2022−12                                                                                                             2022−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2023−03                                                                                                             2023−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2023−06                                                                                                             2023−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2023−09                                                                                                             2023−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2023−12                                                                                                             2023−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2024−03                                                                                                             2024−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2024−06                                                                                                             2024−06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2024−09                                                                                                             2024−09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2024−12                                                                                                             2024−12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2025−03                                                                                                             2025−03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         For illustrative purposes, we show the correspondence between the global weight w̄jzb and conditional




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Therefore, when comparing to the mean, one can use both weights (global and conditional), com-                                                                                                                                                                                  variable is chosen (without loss of generality) to depict the difference in the evolution of the global
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To be more specific, the global weight should be scaled to Nk , which in our case is approximately equal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Recall that both weights are interconnected via the following expression (Equation 40 in the main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                weight mj using All Employees: Retail Trade variable (FRED-md mnemonics USTRADE). This
                                                                                                      First, as expected, the plots show the same dynamics. That is for all w̄jzb > N1 we can observe
     that mj > k1 . Moreover, in our case, both N and k are somewhat stable over time. That happens                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pared to different values (the equal weight N1 and the subspace equal weight k1 , respectively). Both of




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     these comparisons should provide the same results, and the plots should look similar to each other.
because the number of time series in the FRED-md does not vary substantially with rare occasions
of dropouts. Whereas the established k ∗ changes at the speed (T ), which is also slow. Thus, both
                                                             p

dotted lines in Figure 31 and 32 appear to be straight, even though some slight jumps occurred. If we
choose k ∗ differently (say via cross-validation) then the subset dimension can significantly vary over
time (the dotted line in Figure 32, but the established correspondence between w̄jzb and mj would still
hold.




                                                  58
